     

    Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.



    A few of you may be surprised to see someone with my last name
    showing up to speak at a Democratic convention. Let me assure you, I
    am not here to make a political speech, and the topic at hand should
    not -- must not -- have anything to do with partisanship.



    I am here tonight to talk about the issue of research into what may
    be the greatest medical breakthrough in our or in any lifetime: the
    use of embryonic stem cells -- cells created using the material of
    our own bodies -- to cure a wide range of fatal and debilitating
    illnesses: Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, diabetes,
    lymphoma, spinal cord injuries, and much more. Millions are
    afflicted. Every year, every day, tragedy is visited upon families
    across the country, around the world.



    Now, we may be able to put an end to this suffering. We only need to
    try. Some of you already know what I'm talking about when I say
    "embryonic stem cell research." Others of you are probably thinking,
    hmm, that's quite a mouthful, what is this all about?



    Let me try and paint as simple a picture as I can while still doing
    justice to the incredible science involved. Let's say that ten or so
    years from now you are diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. There is
    currently no cure and drug therapy, with its attendant side-effects,
    can only temporarily relieve the symptoms.



    Now, imagine going to a doctor who, instead of prescribing drugs,
    takes a few skin cells from your arm. The nucleus of one of your
    cells is placed into a donor egg whose own nucleus has been removed.
    A bit of chemical or electrical stimulation will encourage your
    cell's nucleus to begin dividing, creating new cells which will then
    be placed into a tissue culture. Those cells will generate embryonic
    stem cells containing only your DNA, thereby eliminating the risk of
    tissue rejection. These stem cells are then driven to become the
    very neural cells that are defective in Parkinson's patients. And
    finally, those cells -- with your DNA -- are injected into your
    brain where they will replace the faulty cells whose failure to
    produce adequate dopamine led to the Parkinson's disease in the
    first place.



    In other words, you're cured. And another thing, these embryonic
    stem cells, they could continue to replicate indefinitely and,
    theoretically, can be induced to recreate virtually any tissue in
    your body. How'd you like to have your own personal biological
    repair kit standing by at the hospital? Sound like magic? Welcome to
    the future of medicine.



    By the way, no fetal tissue is involved in this process. No fetuses
    are created, none destroyed. This all happens in the laboratory at
    the cellular level.



    Now, there are those who would stand in the way of this remarkable
    future, who would deny the federal funding so crucial to basic
    research. They argue that interfering with the development of even
    the earliest stage embryo, even one that will never be implanted in
    a womb and will never develop into an actual fetus, is tantamount to
    murder. A few of these folks, needless to say, are just grinding a
    political axe and they should be ashamed of themselves. But many are
    well-meaning and sincere. Their belief is just that, an article of
    faith, and they are entitled to it.



    But it does not follow that the theology of a few should be allowed
    to forestall the health and well-being of the many. And how can we
    affirm life if we abandon those whose own lives are so desperately
    at risk?



    It is a hallmark of human intelligence that we are able to make
    distinctions. Yes, these cells could theoretically have the
    potential, under very different circumstances, to develop into human
    beings -- that potential is where their magic lies. But they are
    not, in and of themselves, human beings. They have no fingers and
    toes, no brain or spinal cord. They have no thoughts, no fears. They
    feel no pain. Surely we can distinguish between these
    undifferentiated cells multiplying in a tissue culture and a living,
    breathing person-a parent, a spouse, a child.



    I know a child -- well, she must be 13 now -- I'd better call her a
    young woman. She has fingers and toes. She has a mind. She has
    memories. She has hopes. And she has juvenile diabetes.



    Like so many kids with this disease, she has adjusted amazingly
    well. The insulin pump she wears -- she's decorated hers with
    rhinestones. She can insert her own catheter needle. She has learned
    to sleep through the blood drawings in the wee hours of the morning.
    She's very brave. She is also quite bright and understands full well
    the progress of her disease and what that might ultimately mean:
    blindness, amputation, diabetic coma. Every day, she fights to have
    a future.



    What excuse will we offer this young woman should we fail her now?
    What might we tell her children? Or the millions of others who
    suffer? That when given an opportunity to help, we turned away? That
    facing political opposition, we lost our nerve? That even though we
    knew better, we did nothing?



    And, should we fail, how will we feel if, a few years from now, a
    more enlightened generation should fulfill the promise of embryonic
    stem cell therapy? Imagine what they would say of us who lacked the
    will.



    No, we owe this young woman and all those who suffer -- we owe
    ourselves - - better than that. We are better than that. A wiser
    people, a finer nation. And for all of us in this fight, let me say:
    we will prevail.



    The tide of history is with us. Like all generations who have come
    before ours, we are motivated by a thirst for knowledge and
    compelled to see others in need as fellow angels on an often
    difficult path, deserving of our compassion.



    In a few months, we will face a choice. Yes, between two candidates
    and two parties, but more than that. We have a chance to take a
    giant stride forward for the good of all humanity. We can choose
    between the future and the past, between reason and ignorance,
    between true compassion and mere ideology. This is our moment, and
    we must not falter.



    Whatever else you do come November 2nd, I urge you, please, cast a
    vote for embryonic stem cell research. Thank you for your time.


