    Thank you, Lindsey, and, thank you, my fellow Republicans.

    I'm truly grateful for the privilege of addressing you.

    This week, millions of Americans, not all Republicans, weigh our
    claim on their support for the two men who have led our country in
    these challenging times with moral courage and firm resolve.

    So I begin with the words of a great American from the other party,
    given at his party's convention in the year I was born.

    My purpose is not imitation, for I can't match his eloquence, but
    respect for the relevance in our time of his rousing summons to
    greatness of an earlier generation of Americans.

    In a time of deep distress at home, as tyranny strangled the
    aspirations to liberty of millions, and as war clouds gathered in
    the West and East, Franklin Delano Roosevelt accepted his party's
    nomination by observing:

    "There is a mysterious cycle in human events. To some generations
    much is given. Of other generations much is expected. This
    generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny."

    The awful events of September 11, 2001 declared a war we were
    vaguely aware of, but hadn't really comprehended how near the threat
    was, and how terrible were the plans of our enemies.

    It's a big thing, this war.

    It's a fight between a just regard for human dignity and a
    malevolent force that defiles an honorable religion by disputing
    God's love for every soul on earth. It's a fight between right and
    wrong, good and evil.

    And should our enemies acquire for their arsenal the chemical,
    biological and nuclear weapons they seek, this war will become a
    much bigger thing.

    So it is, whether we wished it or not, that we have come to the test
    of our generation, to our rendezvous with destiny.

    And much is expected of us.

    We are engaged in a hard struggle against a cruel and determined
    adversary.

    Our enemies have made clear the danger they pose to our security and
    to the very essence of our culture ...liberty.

    Only the most deluded of us could doubt the necessity of this war.

    Like all wars, this one will have its ups and downs.

    But we must fight. We must.

    The sacrifices borne in our defense are not shared equally by all
    Americans.

    But all Americans must share a resolve to see this war through to a
    just end.

    We must not be complacent at moments of success, and we must not
    despair over setbacks.

    We must learn from our mistakes, improve on our successes, and
    vanquish this unpardonable enemy.

    If we do less, we will fail the one mission no American generation
    has ever failed

    to provide to our children a stronger, better country than the one
    we were blessed to inherit.

    Remember how we felt when the serenity of a bright September morning
    was destroyed by a savage atrocity so hostile to all human virtue we
    could scarcely imagine any human being capable of it.

    We were united. First, in sorrow and anger. Then in recognition we
    were attacked not for a wrong we had done, but for who we are a
    people united in a kinship of ideals, committed to the notion that
    the people are sovereign, not governments, not armies, not a
    pitiless, inhumane theocracy, not kings, mullahs or tyrants, but the
    people.

    In that moment, we were not different races.

    We were not poor or rich. We were not Democrat or Republican,
    liberal or conservative. We were not two countries.

    We were Americans.

    All of us, despite the differences that enliven our politics, are
    united in the one big idea that freedom is our birthright and its
    defense is always our first responsibility. All other
    responsibilities come second.

    We must not lose sight of that as we debate who among us should bear
    the greatest responsibility

    for keeping us safe and free.

    We must, whatever our disagreements, stick together in this great
    challenge of our time.

    My friends in the Democratic Party and I'm fortunate to call many of
    them my friends

    assure us they share the conviction that winning the war against
    terrorism is our government's

    most important obligation.

    I don't doubt their sincerity. They emphasize that military action
    alone won't protect us, that this war has many fronts: in courts,
    financial institutions, in the shadowy world of intelligence, and in
    diplomacy.

    They stress that America needs the help of her friends to combat an
    evil that threatens us all,

    that our alliances are as important to victory as are our armies. We
    agree.

    And, as we've been a good friend to other countries in moments of
    shared perils, so we have good reason to expect their solidarity
    with us in this struggle. That is what the President believes.

    And, thanks to his efforts we have received valuable assistance from
    many good friends around the globe, even if we have, at times, been
    disappointed with the reactions of some. I don't doubt the sincerity
    of my Democratic friends. And they should not doubt ours.

    Our President will work with all nations willing to help us defeat
    this scourge that afflicts us all.

    War is an awful business. The lives of a nation's finest patriots
    are sacrificed. Innocent people suffer. Commerce is disrupted,
    economies are damaged.

    Strategic interests shielded by years of statecraft are endangered
    as the demands of war and

    diplomacy conflict.

    However just the cause, we should shed a tear for all that is lost
    when war claims its wages from us. But there is no avoiding this
    war. We tried that, and our reluctance cost us dearly. And while
    this war has many components, we can't make victory on the
    battlefield harder to achieve so that our diplomacy is easier to
    conduct.

    That is not just an expression of our strength. It's a measure of
    our wisdom.

    That's why I commend to my country the re-election of President
    Bush, and the steady, experienced, public-spirited man who serves as
    our Vice-President, Dick Cheney.

    Four years ago, in Philadelphia, I spoke of my confidence that
    President Bush would accept the responsibilities that come with
    America's distinction as the world's only superpower.

    I promised he would not let America "retreat behind empty threats,
    false promises and uncertain diplomacy;" that he would "confidently
    defend our interests and values wherever they are threatened."

    I knew my confidence was well placed when I watched him stand on the
    rubble of the World Trade Center, with his arm around a hero of
    September 11th, and in our moment of mourning and anger, strengthen
    our unity and summon our resolve by promising to right this terrible
    wrong, and to stand up and fight for the values we hold dear.

    He promised our enemies would soon hear from us. And so they did. So
    they did.

    He ordered American forces to Afghanistan and took the fight to our
    enemies, and away from our shores, seriously injuring al Qaeda and
    destroying the regime that gave them safe haven. He worked
    effectively to secure the cooperation of Pakistan, a relationship
    that's critical to our success against al Qaeda.

    He encouraged other friends to recognize the peril that terrorism
    posed for them, and won their help in apprehending many of those who
    would attack us again, and in helping to freeze the assets they used
    to fund their bloody work.

    After years of failed diplomacy and limited military pressure to
    restrain Saddam Hussein,

    President Bush made the difficult decision to liberate Iraq. Those
    who criticize that decision would have us believe that the choice
    was between a status quo that was well enough left alone and war.
    But there was no status quo to be left alone.

    The years of keeping Saddam in a box were coming to a close. The
    international consensus that he be kept isolated and unarmed had
    eroded to the point that many critics of military action had decided
    the time had come again to do business with Saddam, despite his near
    daily attacks on our pilots, and his refusal, until his last day in
    power, to allow the unrestricted inspection of his arsenal.

    Our choice wasn't between a benign status quo and the bloodshed of
    war. It was between war and a graver threat. Don't let anyone tell
    you otherwise. Not our critics abroad. Not our political opponents.

    And certainly not a disingenuous film maker who would have us
    believe that Saddam's Iraq was an oasis of peace when in fact it was
    a place of indescribable cruelty, torture chambers, mass graves

    and prisons that destroyed the lives of the small children held
    inside their walls.

    Whether or not Saddam possessed the terrible weapons he once had and
    used, freed from international pressure and the threat of military
    action, he would have acquired them again.

    The central security concern of our time is to keep such devastating
    weapons beyond the reach of terrorists who can't be dissuaded from
    using them by the threat of mutual destruction.

    We couldn't afford the risk posed by an unconstrained Saddam in
    these dangerous times.

    By destroying his regime we gave hope to people long oppressed that
    if they have the courage to fight for it, they may live in peace and
    freedom.

    Most importantly, our efforts may encourage the people of a region
    that has never known peace or freedom or lasting stability that they
    may someday possess these rights. I believe as strongly today as
    ever, the mission was necessary, achievable and noble. For his
    determination to undertake it, and for his unflagging resolve to see
    it through to a just end, President Bush deserves not only our
    support, but our admiration.

    As the President rightly reminds us, we are safer than we were on
    September 11th, but we're not yet safe. We are still closer to the
    beginning than the end of this fight.

    We need a leader with the experience to make the tough decisions and
    the resolve to stick with them; a leader who will keep us moving
    forward even if it is easier to rest.

    And this President will not rest until America is stronger and safer
    still, and this hateful iniquity is vanquished. He has been tested
    and has risen to the most important challenge of our time, and I
    salute him.

    I salute his determination to make this world a better, safer, freer
    place. He has not wavered. He has not flinched from the hard
    choices. He will not yield. And neither will we.

    I said earlier that the sacrifices in this war will not be shared
    equally by all Americans. The President is the first to observe,
    most of the sacrifices fall, as they have before, to the brave men
    and women of our Armed Forces. We may be good citizens, but make no
    mistake, they are the very best of us.

    It's an honor to live in a country that is so well and so bravely
    defended by such patriots.

    May God bless them, the living and the fallen, as He has blessed us
    with their service.

    For their families, for their friends, for America, for mankind they
    sacrifice to affirm that right makes might; that good triumphs over
    evil; that freedom is stronger than tyranny; that love is greater
    than hate.

    It is left to us to keep their generous benefaction alive, and our
    blessed, beautiful country worthy of their courage. We should be
    thankful -- for the privilege.

    Our country's security doesn't depend on the heroism of every
    citizen. But we have to be worthy of the sacrifices made on our behalf.

    We have to love our freedom, not just for the material benefits it
    provides, not just for the autonomy it guarantees us, but for the
    goodness it makes possible.

    We have to love it as much, if not as heroically, as the brave
    Americans who defend us at the risk, and often the cost of their lives.

    No American alive today will ever forget what happened on the
    morning of September 11th. That day was the moment when the pendulum
    of history swung toward a new era. The opening chapter was tinged
    with great sadness and uncertainty. It shook us from our complacency
    in the belief that the Cold War's end had ushered in a time of
    global tranquility.

    But an absence of complacency should not provoke an absence of
    confidence. What our enemies have sought to destroy is beyond their
    reach. It cannot be taken from us. It can only be surrendered.

    My friends, we are again met on the field of political competition
    with our fellow countrymen. It is more than appropriate, it is
    necessary that even in times of crisis we have these contests,

    and engage in spirited disagreement over the shape and course of our
    government.

    We have nothing to fear from each other. We are arguing over the
    means to better secure our freedom, and promote the general welfare.
    But it should remain an argument among friends who share an unshaken
    belief in our great cause, and in the goodness of each other.

    We are Americans first, Americans last, Americans always. Let us
    argue our differences.

    But remember we are not enemies, but comrades in a war against a
    real enemy, and take courage from the knowledge that our military
    superiority is matched only by the superiority of our ideals, and
    our unconquerable love for them.

    Our adversaries are weaker than us in arms and men, but weaker still
    in causes. They fight to express a hatred for all that is good in
    humanity.

    We fight for love of freedom and justice, a love that is invincible.
    Keep that faith. Keep your courage. Stick together. Stay strong.

    Do not yield. Do not flinch. Stand up. Stand up with our President
    and fight.

    We're Americans.

    We're Americans, and we'll never surrender.

    They will.



