

Mr. Chairman, delegates, distinguished guests, and fellow Americans: I accept your nomination for vice president of the United States.



I am honored by your confidence. And tonight I make this pledge: I will give this campaign all that I have, and together we will make George W. Bush president for another four years.



Tonight I will talk about this good man and his fine record leading our country. And I may say a word or two about his opponent. I am also mindful that I have an opponent of my own. People tell me that Senator Edwards got picked for his good looks, his sex appeal, and his great hair. I say to them - how do you think I got the job?



On this night, as we celebrate the opportunities that America offers, I am filled with gratitude to a nation that has been good to me, and I remember the people who set me on my way in life. My grandfather noted that the day I was born was also the birthday of Franklin Delano Roosevelt.



And so he told my parents they should send President Roosevelt an announcement of my birth. Now my grandfather didn't have a chance to go to high school. For many years he worked as a cook on the Union Pacific Railroad, and he and my grandmother lived in a railroad car. But the modesty of his circumstances didn't stop him from thinking that President Roosevelt should know about my arrival. My grandfather believed deeply in the promise of America, and had the highest hopes for his family. And I don't think it would surprise him much that a grandchild of his stands before you tonight as Vice President of the United States.



It is the story of this country that people have been able to dream big dreams with confidence they would come true, if not for themselves, then for their children and grandchildren. And that sense of boundless opportunity is a gift that we must pass on to all who come after us.



From kindergarten to graduation, I went to public schools, and I know that they are a key to being sure that every child has a chance to succeed and to rise in the world. When the President and I took office, our schools were shuffling too many children from grade to grade without giving them the skills and knowledge they need. So President Bush reached across the aisle and brought both parties together to pass the most significant education reform in 40 years.



With higher standards and new resources, America's schools are now on an upward path to excellence - and not for just a few children, but for every child.



Opportunity also depends on a vibrant, growing economy. As President Bush and I were sworn into office, our nation was sliding into recession, and American workers were overburdened with federal taxes. Then came the events of September 11th, which hit our economy very hard. So President Bush delivered the greatest tax reduction in a generation, and the results are clear to see. Businesses are creating jobs. People are returning to work.



Mortgage rates are low, and home ownership in this country is at an all-time high. The Bush tax cuts are working.



Our nation has the best healthcare in the world, and President Bush is making it more affordable and accessible to all Americans. And there is more to do. Under this President's leadership, we will reform medical liability so the system serves patients and good doctors, not personal injury lawyers.



These have been years of achievement, and we are eager for the work ahead. And in all that we do, we will never lose sight of the greatest challenge of our time: preserving the freedom and security of this nation against determined enemies.



Since I last spoke to our national convention, Lynne and I have had the joy of seeing our family grow. We now have a grandson to go along with our three wonderful granddaughters, and the deepest wish of my heart and the object of all my determination is that they, and all of America's children, will have lives filled with opportunity … and that they will inherit a world in which they can live in freedom, in safety, and in peace.



Four years ago, some said the world had grown calm, and many assumed that the United States was invulnerable to danger. That thought might have been comforting; it was also false. Like other generations of Americans, we soon discovered that history had great and unexpected duties in store for us.



September 11th, 2001, made clear the challenges we face. On that day we saw the harm that could be done by 19 men armed with knives and boarding passes. America also awakened to a possibility even more lethal: this enemy, whose hatred of us is limitless, armed with chemical, biological, or even nuclear weapons.



Just as surely as the Nazis during World War Two and the Soviet communists during the Cold War, the enemy we face today is bent on our destruction. As in other times, we are in a war we did not start, and have no choice but to win. Firm in our resolve, focused on our mission, and led by a superb commander in chief, we will prevail.



The fanatics who killed some 3,000 of our fellow Americans may have thought they could attack us with impunity - because terrorists had done so previously. But if the killers of September 11th thought we had lost the will to defend our freedom, they did not know America … and they did not know George W. Bush.



From the beginning, the President made clear that the terrorists would be dealt with - and that anyone who supports, protects, or harbors them would be held to account. In a campaign that has reached around the world, we have captured or killed hundreds of Al-Qaeda. In Afghanistan, the camps where terrorists trained to kill Americans have been shut down, and the Taliban driven from power. In Iraq, we dealt with a gathering threat, and removed the regime of Saddam Hussein. Seventeen months ago, he controlled the lives and fortunes of 25 million people. Tonight he sits in jail.



President Bush does not deal in empty threats and half measures, and his determination has sent a clear message. Just five days after Saddam was captured, the government of Libya agreed to abandon its nuclear weapons program and turn the materials over to the United States. Tonight, uranium, centrifuges, and plans for nuclear weapons that were once hidden in Libya are locked up and stored away in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, never again to be a danger to Americans.



The biggest threat we face today is having nuclear weapons fall into the hands of terrorists. The president is working with many countries in a global effort to end the trade and transfer of these deadly technologies. The most important result thus far - and it is a very important one - is that the black-market network that supplied nuclear weapons technology to Libya, as well as to Iran and North Korea, has been shut down. The world's worst source of nuclear weapons proliferation is out of business - and we are safer as a result.



In the global war we are fighting, we owe a mighty debt to the men and women of the United States armed forces. They have fought the enemy with courage and reached out to civilians with compassion, rebuilding schools and hospitals and roads. They have won stunning victories. They have faced hard duty and long deployments. And they have lost comrades, more than 1100 brave Americans, whose memory this nation will honor forever. The men and women who wear the uniform of the United States represent the very best of America. They have the thanks of our nation. And they have the confidence, the loyalty, and the respect of their commander in chief.



In this election, we will decide who leads our country for the next four years. Yet there is more in the balance than that. Moments come along in history when leaders must make fundamental decisions about how to confront a long term challenge abroad and how best to keep the American people secure. We faced such a moment after World War Two, when we put in place the policies that defended America throughout the Cold War. Those policies - containing communism, deterring attack by the Soviet Union, and promoting the rise of democracy - were carried out by Democratic and Republican presidents in the decades that followed.



This nation has reached another of those defining moments. Under President Bush we have put in place new policies and created new institutions to defend America, to stop terrorist violence at its source, and to help move the Middle East away from old hatreds and resentments and toward the lasting peace that only freedom can bring. This is the work not of months, but of years-and keeping these commitments is essential to our future security. For that reason, ladies and gentlemen, the election of 2004 is one of the most important, not just in our lives but in our history.



And so it is time to set the alternatives squarely before the American people.



The President's opponent is an experienced senator. He speaks often of his service in Vietnam, and we honor him for it. But there is also a record of more than three decades since. And on the question of America's role in the world, the differences between Senator Kerry and President Bush are the sharpest, and the stakes for the country are the highest. History has shown that a strong and purposeful America is vital to preserving freedom and keeping us safe - yet time and again Senator Kerry has made the wrong call on national security. Senator Kerry began his political career by saying he would like to see our troops deployed "only at the directive of the United Nations." During the 1980s, Senator Kerry opposed Ronald Reagan's major defense initiatives that brought victory in the Cold War. In 1991, when Saddam Hussein occupied Kuwait and stood poised to dominate the Persian Gulf, Senator Kerry voted against Operation Desert Storm.



Even in this post-9/11 period, Senator Kerry doesn't appear to understand how the world has changed. He talks about leading a "more sensitive war on terror," as though Al Qaeda will be impressed with our softer side. He declared at the Democratic Convention that he will forcefully defend America - after we have been attacked. My fellow Americans, we have already been attacked, and faced with an enemy who seeks the deadliest of weapons to use against us, we cannot wait for the next attack. We must do everything we can to prevent it - and that includes the use of military force.



Senator Kerry denounces American action when other countries don't approve - as if the whole object of our foreign policy were to please a few persistent critics. In fact, in the global war on terror, as in Afghanistan and Iraq, President Bush has brought many allies to our side. But as the President has made very clear, there is a difference between leading a coalition of many, and submitting to the objections of a few. George W. Bush will never seek a permission slip to defend the American people.



Senator Kerry also takes a different view when it comes to supporting our military.



Although he voted to authorize force against Saddam Hussein, he then decided he was opposed to the war, and voted against funding for our men and women in the field. He voted against body armor, ammunition, fuel, spare parts, armored vehicles, extra pay for hardship duty, and support for military families. Senator Kerry is campaigning for the position of commander in chief. Yet he does not seem to understand the first obligation of a commander in chief - and that is to support American troops in combat.



In his years in Washington, John Kerry has been one of a hundred votes in the United States Senate - and very fortunately on matters of national security, his views rarely prevailed.



But the presidency is an entirely different proposition. A senator can be wrong for 20 years, without consequence to the nation. But a president - a president - always casts the deciding vote. And in this time of challenge, America needs - and America has - a president we can count on to get it right.



On Iraq, Senator Kerry has disagreed with many of his fellow Democrats. But Senator Kerry's liveliest disagreement is with himself. His back-and-forth reflects a habit of indecision, and sends a message of confusion. And it is all part of a pattern. He has, in the last several years, been for the No Child Left Behind Act - and against it. He has spoken in favor of the North American Free Trade Agreement - and against it. He is for the Patriot Act - and against it. Senator Kerry says he sees two Americas. It makes the whole thing mutual - America sees two John Kerrys.



The other candidate in this race is a man our nation has come to know, and one I've come to admire very much. I watch him at work every day. I have seen him face some of the hardest decisions that can come to the Oval Office - and make those decisions with the wisdom and humility Americans expect in their president. George W. Bush is a man who speaks plainly and means what he says. He is a person of loyalty and kindness - and he brings out these qualities in those around him. He is a man of great personal strength - and more than that, a man with a heart for the weak, and the vulnerable, and the afflicted. We all remember that terrible morning when, in the space of just 102 minutes, more Americans were killed than we lost at Pearl Harbor.



We remember the President who came to New York City and pledged that the terrorists would soon hear from all of us. George W. Bush saw this country through grief and tragedy … he has acted with patience, and calm, and a moral seriousness that calls evil by its name. In the great divide of our time, he has put this nation where America always belongs: against the tyrants of this world, and on the side of every soul on earth who yearns to live in freedom.



Fellow citizens, our nation is reaching the hour of decision, and the choice is clear. President Bush and I will wage this effort with complete confidence in the judgment of the American people. The signs are good - even in Massachusetts. According to a news account last month, people leaving the Democratic National Convention asked a Boston policeman for directions. He replied, "Leave here - and go vote Republican."



President Bush and I are honored to have the support of that police officer, and of Democrats, Republicans, and independents from every calling in American life. We are so fortunate, each and every one of us, to be citizens of this great nation and to take part in the defining event of our democracy: Choosing who will lead us.



The historian Bernard DeVoto once wrote that when America was created, the stars must have danced in the sky. Our president understands the miracle of this great country. He knows the hope that drives it and shares the optimism that has long been so important a part of our national character. He gets up each and every day determined to keep our great nation safe so that generations to come will know the freedom and opportunities we have known-and more.



When this convention concludes tomorrow night, we will go forth with confidence in our cause, and in the man who leads it. By leaving no doubt where we stand, and asking all Americans to join us, we will see our cause to victory. Thank you very much.


    Welcome to the capital of the World.

    New York was the first capital of our great nation. It was here in
    1789 in lower Manhattan that George Washington took the oath of
    office as the first President of the United States.

    It was here in 2001 in lower Manhattan that President George W. Bush
    stood amid the fallen towers of the World Trade Center and said to
    the barbaric terrorists who attacked us, "They will hear from us."

    They have heard from us!

    They heard from us in Afghanistan and we removed the Taliban.

    They heard from us in Iraq and we ended Saddam Hussein's reign of
    terror.

    They heard from us in Libya and without firing a shot Qadhafi
    abandoned weapons of mass destruction.

    They are hearing from us in nations that are now more reluctant to
    sponsor terrorists.

    So long as George Bush is President, is there any doubt they will
    continue to hear from us until we defeat global terrorism.

    We owe that much and more to those loved ones and heroes we lost on
    September 11th.

    The families of some of those we lost on September 11th are here
    with us. To them, and all those families affected by September 11th,
    we recognize the sacrifices your loved ones and you have made. You
    are in our prayers and we are in your debt.

    This is the first Republican Convention ever held in New York City.

    It makes a statement that New York City and America are open for
    business and stronger than ever.

    We're not going to let the threat of terrorism stop us from leading
    our lives.

    From the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, to President
    George W. Bush our party's great contribution is to expand freedom
    in our own land and all over the world.

    And our party is at its best when it makes certain that we have a
    powerful national defense in a still very dangerous world.

    I don't believe we're right about everything and Democrats are wrong
    about everything.

    Neither party has a monopoly on virtue.

    But I do believe that there are times in our history when our ideas
    are more necessary and important for what we are facing.

    There are times when leadership is the most important.

    On September 11, this city and our nation faced the worst attack in
    our history.

    On that day, we had to confront reality. For me, standing below the
    north tower and looking up and seeing the flames of hell and then
    realizing that I was actually seeing a man a human being jumping
    from the 101st or 102nd floor drove home to me that we were facing
    something beyond anything we had ever faced before.

    We had to concentrate all of our energy, faith and hope to get
    through those first hours and days.

    And I will always remember that moment as we escaped the building we
    were trapped in at 75 Barclay Street and realized that things
    outside might be even worse than they were inside the building.

    We did the best we could to communicate a message of calm and hope,
    as we stood on the pavement seeing a massive cloud rushing through
    the cavernous streets of lower Manhattan.

    Our people were so brave in their response.

    At the time, we believed we would be attacked many more times that
    day and in the days that followed. Spontaneously, I grabbed the arm
    of then Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik and said to Bernie, "Thank
    God George Bush is our President."

    And I say it again tonight, "Thank God George Bush is our President."

    On September 11, George W. Bush had been President less than eight
    months. This new President, Vice President, and new administration
    were faced with the worst crisis in our history.

    President Bush's response in keeping us unified and in turning the
    ship of state around from being solely on defense against terrorism
    to being on offense as well and for his holding us together.

    For that and then his determined effort to defeat global terrorism,
    no matter what happens in this election, President George W. Bush
    already has earned a place in our history as a great American
    President.

    But let's not wait for history to present the correct view of our
    President. Let us write our own history.

    We need George Bush now more than ever.

    The horror, the shock and the devastation of those attacks on the
    World Trade Center, the Pentagon and over the skies of Pennsylvania
    lifted a cloud from our eyes.

    We stood face to face with those people and forces who hijacked not
    just airplanes but a religion and turned it into a creed of
    terrorism dedicated to eradicating us and our way of life.

    Terrorism did not start on September 11, 2001. It had been festering
    for many years.

    And the world had created a response to it that allowed it to
    succeed. The attack on the Israeli team at the Munich Olympics was
    in 1972. And the pattern had already begun.

    The three surviving terrorists were arrested and within two months
    released by the German government.

    Action like this became the rule, not the exception.

    Terrorists came to learn they could attack and often not face
    consequences.

    In 1985, terrorists attacked the Achille Lauro and murdered an
    American citizen who was in a wheelchair, Leon Klinghoffer.

    They marked him for murder solely because he was Jewish.

    Some of those terrorist were released and some of the remaining
    terrorists allowed to escape by the Italian government because of
    fear of reprisals.

    So terrorists learned they could intimidate the world community and
    too often the response, particularly in Europe, was "accommodation,
    appeasement and compromise."

    And worse the terrorists also learned that their cause would be
    taken more seriously, almost in direct proportion to the barbarity
    of the attack.

    Terrorist acts became a ticket to the international bargaining table.

    How else to explain Yasser Arafat winning the Nobel Peace Prize when
    he was supporting a terrorist plague in the Middle East that
    undermined any chance of peace?

    Before September 11, we were living with an unrealistic view of the
    world much like our observing

    Europe appease Hitler or trying to accommodate ourselves to peaceful
    co-existence with the Soviet Union through mutually assured
    destruction.

    President Bush decided that we could no longer be just on defense
    against global terrorism but we must also be on offense.

    On September 20, 2001, President Bush stood before a joint session
    of Congress, a still grieving and shocked nation and a confused
    world and he did change the direction of our ship of state.

    He dedicated America under his leadership to destroying global
    terrorism.

    The President announced the Bush Doctrine when he said: "Our war on
    terror begins with Al Qaeda, but it does not end there.

    It will not end until every terrorist group of global reach has been
    found, stopped and defeated.

    "Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists."

    And since September 11th President Bush has remained rock solid.

    It doesn't matter how he is demonized.

    It doesn't matter what the media does to ridicule him or
    misinterpret him or defeat him.

    They ridiculed Winston Churchill. They belittled Ronald Reagan.

    But like President Bush, they were optimists; leaders must be
    optimists. Their vision was beyond the present and set on a future
    of real peace and true freedom.

    Some call it stubbornness. I call it principled leadership.

    President Bush has the courage of his convictions.

    In choosing a President, we really don't choose a Republican or
    Democrat, a conservative or liberal.

    We choose a leader.

    And in times of danger, as we are now in, Americans should put
    leadership at the core of their decision.

    There are many qualities that make a great leader but having strong
    beliefs, being able to stick with them through popular and unpopular
    times, is the most important characteristic of a great leader.

    Winston Churchill saw the dangers of Hitler while his opponents
    characterized him as a war-mongering gadfly.

    Ronald Reagan saw and described the Soviet Union as "the evil
    empire" while world opinion accepted it as inevitable and belittled
    Ronald Reagan's intelligence.

    President Bush sees world terrorism for the evil that it is.

    John Kerry has no such clear, precise and consistent vision.

    This is not a personal criticism of John Kerry.

    I respect him for his service to our nation.

    But it is important to see the contrast in approach between the two men;

    President Bush, a leader who is willing to stick with difficult
    decisions even as public opinion shifts, and John Kerry, whose
    record in elected office suggests a man who changes his position
    often even on important issues.

    When Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990, John Kerry voted against
    the Persian Gulf War. Later he said he actually supported the war.

    Then in 2002, as he was calculating his run for President, he voted
    for the war in Iraq.

    And then just 9 months later, he voted against an $87 billion
    supplemental budget to fund the war and support our troops.

    He even, at one point, declared himself an anti-war candidate. Now,
    he says he's pro-war. At this rate, with 64 days left, he still has
    time to change his position at least three or four more times.

    My point about John Kerry being inconsistent is best described in
    his own words when he said, "I actually did vote for the $87 billion
    before I voted against it."

    Maybe this explains John Edwards' need for two Americas - - one
    where John Kerry can vote for something and another where he can
    vote against the same thing.

    Yes, people in public office at times do change their minds, I've
    done that, or they realize they are wrong or circumstances change.

    But John Kerry has made it the rule to change his position, rather
    than the exception. In October, 2003, he told an Arab-American
    Institute in Detroit that a security barrier separating Israel from
    the Palestinian Territories was a "barrier to peace."

    A few months later, he took exactly the opposite position. In an
    interview with the Jerusalem Post he said, "Israel's security fence
    is a legitimate act of self defense."

    The contrasts are dramatic. They involve very different views of how
    to deal with terrorism.

    President Bush will make certain that we are combatting terrorism at
    the source, beyond our shores, so we can reduce the risk of having
    to confront it in the streets of New York.

    John Kerry's record of inconsistent positions on combatting
    terrorism gives us no confidence he'll pursue such a determined course.

    President Bush will not allow countries that appear to have ignored
    the lessons of history and failed for over thirty years to stand up
    to terrorists, to dissuade us from what is necessary for our defense.

    He will not let them set our agenda. Under President Bush, America
    will lead rather than follow.

    John Kerry's claim that certain foreign leaders who opposed our
    removal of Saddam Hussein prefer him, raises the risk that he would
    accommodate his position to their viewpoint.

    It would hardly be the first time he changed his position on matters
    of war and peace.

    I remember the days following September 11th when we were no longer
    Democrats or Republicans, but Americans determined to do all we
    could to help the victims, to rebuild our city and nation and to
    disable our enemies.

    I remember President Bush coming here on September 14, 2001 and
    lifting the morale of our rescue workers by talking with them and
    embracing them and staying with them much longer than originally
    planned.

    In fact, if you promise to keep it just between us so I don't get in
    trouble it was my opinion that the Secret Service was concerned
    about the President remaining so long in that area.

    With buildings still unstable, with fires raging below ground of
    2000 degrees or more, there was good reason for concern.

    Well the President remained there and talked to everyone, the
    firefighters, the police officers, the healthcare workers, the
    clergy, but the people who spent the most time with him were our
    construction workers.

    Now New York construction workers are very special people. I'm sure
    this is true all over but I know the ones here the best. They were
    real heroes along with many others that day, volunteering
    immediately. And they're big, real big. Their arms are bigger than
    my legs and their opinions are even bigger than their arms.

    Now each one of them would engage the President and I imagine like
    his cabinet give him advice.

    They were advising him in their own words on exactly what he should
    do with the terrorists. Of course I can't repeat their exact language.

    But one of them really went into great detail and upon conclusion of
    his remarks President Bush said in a rather loud voice, "I agree."

    At this point the guy just beamed and all his buddies turned toward
    him in amazement.

    The guy just lost it.

    So he reached over, embraced the President and began hugging him
    enthusiastically.

    A Secret Service agent standing next to me looked at the President
    and the guy and instead of extracting the President from this bear
    hug, he turned toward me and put his finger in my face and said, "If
    this guy hurts the President, Giuliani you're finished."

    Meekly, and this is the moral of the story, I responded, "but it
    would be out of love."

    I also remember the heart wrenching visit President Bush made to the
    families of our firefighters and police officers at the Javits Center.

    I remember receiving all the help, assistance and support from the
    President and even more than we asked.

    For that I will be eternally grateful to President Bush.

    And I remember the support being bi-partisan and actually standing
    hand in hand Republicans and Democrats, here in New York and all
    over the nation.

    During a Boston Red Sox game there was a sign held up saying Boston
    loves New York.

    I saw a Chicago police officer sent here by Mayor Daley directing
    traffic in Manhattan.

    I'm not sure where he sent the cars, they are probably still riding
    around the Bronx, but it was very reassuring to know how much
    support we had.

    And as we look beyond this election and elections do accentuate
    differences let's make sure we rekindle that spirit that we are one
    one America united to end the threat of global terrorism.

    Certainly President Bush will keep us focused on that goal. When
    President Bush announced his commitment to ending global terrorism,
    he understood - - I understood, we all understood - - it was
    critical to remove the pillars of support for the global terrorist
    movement.

    In any plan to destroy global terrorism, removing Saddam Hussein
    needed to be accomplished.

    Frankly, I believed then and I believe now that Saddam Hussein, who
    supported global terrorism, slaughtered hundreds of thousands of his
    own people, permitted horrific atrocities against women, and used
    weapons of mass destruction, was himself a weapon of mass destruction.

    But the reasons for removing Saddam Hussein were based on issues
    even broader than just the presence of weapons of mass destruction.

    To liberate people, give them a chance for accountable, decent
    government and rid the world of a pillar of support for global
    terrorism is something for which all those involved from President
    Bush to the brave men and women of our armed forces should be proud.

    President Bush has also focused on the correct long-term answer for
    the violence and hatred emerging from the Middle East. The hatred
    and anger in the Middle East arises from the lack of accountable
    governments.

    Rather than trying to grant more freedom, create more income,
    improve education and basic health care, these governments deflect
    their own failures by pointing to America and Israel and other
    external scapegoats.

    But blaming these scapegoats does not improve the life of a single
    person in the Arab world. It does not relieve the plight of even one
    woman in Iran.

    It does not give a decent living to a single soul in Syria. It
    certainly does not stop the slaughter of African Christians in the
    Sudan.

    The changes necessary in the Middle East involve encouraging
    accountable, lawful governments that can be role models.

    This has also been an important part of the Bush Doctrine and the
    President's vision for the future.

    Have faith in the power of freedom.

    People who live in freedom always prevail over people who live in
    oppression. That's the story of the Old Testament. That's the story
    of World War II and the Cold War.

    That's the story of the firefighters and police officers and rescue
    workers who courageously saved thousands of lives on September 11,
    2001.

    President Bush is the leader we need for the next four years because
    he sees beyond today and tomorrow. He has a vision of a peaceful
    Middle East and, therefore, a safer world. We will see an end to
    global terrorism. I can see it. I believe it. I know it will happen.

    It may seem a long way off. It may even seem idealistic.

    But it may not be as far away and idealistic as it seems.

    Look how quickly the Berlin Wall was torn down, the Iron Curtain
    ripped open and the Soviet Union disintegrated because of the power
    of the pent-up demand for freedom.

    When it catches hold there is nothing more powerful than freedom.
    Give it some hope, and it will overwhelm dictators, and even defeat
    terrorists. That is what we have done and must continue to do in Iraq.

    That is what the Republican Party does best when we are at our best,
    we extend freedom.

    It's our mission. And it's the long-term answer to ending global
    terrorism. Governments that are free and accountable.

    We have won many battles at home and abroad but as President Bush
    told us on September 20, 2001 it will take a long-term determined
    effort to prevail.

    The war on terrorism will not be won in a single battle. There will
    be no dramatic surrender. There will be no crumbling of a massive wall.

    But we will know it. We'll know it as accountable governments
    continue to develop in countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iraq.

    We'll know it as terrorist attacks throughout the world decrease and
    then end.

    And then, God willing, we'll all be able on a future anniversary of
    September 11th.

    To say to our fallen brothers and sisters. To our heroes of the
    worst attack in our history and to our heroes who have sacrificed
    their lives in the war on terror.

    We will say to them we have done all that we could with our lives
    that were spared to make your sacrifices build a world of real peace
    and true freedom.

    We will make certain in the words of President Bush that they have
    heard from us.

    That they have heard from us a message of peace through free,
    accountable, lawful and decent governments giving people hope for a
    future for themselves and their children.

    God bless each one we have lost, here and abroad, and their families.

    God bless all those defending our freedom.

    God bless America.



Mr. Chairman, delegates, fellow citizens: I am honored by your support, and I accept your nomination for President of the United States.



When I said those words four years ago, none of us could have envisioned what these years would bring. In the heart of this great city, we saw tragedy arrive on a quiet morning. We saw the bravery of rescuers grow with danger. We learned of passengers on a doomed plane who died with a courage that frightened their killers. We have seen a shaken economy rise to its feet. And we have seen Americans in uniform storming mountain strongholds, and charging through sandstorms, and liberating millions, with acts of valor that would make the men of Normandy proud.



Since 2001, Americans have been given hills to climb, and found the strength to climb them. Now, because we have made the hard journey, we can see the valley below. Now, because we have faced challenges with resolve, we have historic goals within our reach, and greatness in our future. We will build a safer world and a more hopeful America — and nothing will hold us back.



In the work we have done, and the work we will do, I am fortunate to have a superb Vice President. I have counted on Dick Cheney's calm and steady judgment in difficult days, and I am honored to have him at my side.



I am grateful to share my walk in life with Laura Bush. Americans have come to see the goodness and kindness and strength I first saw 26 years ago, and we love our First Lady.



I am a fortunate father of two spirited, intelligent, and lovely young women. I am blessed with a sister and brothers who are also my closest friends. And I will always be the proud and grateful son of George and Barbara Bush.



My father served eight years at the side of another great American — Ronald Reagan. His spirit of optimism and goodwill and decency are in this hall, and in our hearts, and will always define our party.



Two months from today, voters will make a choice based on the records we have built, the convictions we hold, and the vision that guides us forward. A presidential election is a contest for the future. Tonight I will tell you where I stand, what I believe, and where I will lead this country in the next four years.



I believe every child can learn, and every school must teach — so we passed the most important federal education reform in history. Because we acted, children are making sustained progress in reading and math, America's schools are getting better, and nothing will hold us back.



I believe we have a moral responsibility to honor America's seniors — so I brought Republicans and Democrats together to strengthen Medicare. Now seniors are getting immediate help buying medicine. Soon every senior will be able to get prescription drug coverage, and nothing will hold us back.



I believe in the energy and innovative spirit of America's workers, entrepreneurs, farmers, and ranchers — so we unleashed that energy with the largest tax relief in a generation. Because we acted, our economy is growing again, and creating jobs, and nothing will hold us back.



I believe the most solemn duty of the American president is to protect the American people. If America shows uncertainty and weakness in this decade, the world will drift toward tragedy. This will not happen on my watch.



I am running for President with a clear and positive plan to build a safer world, and a more hopeful America. I am running with a compassionate conservative philosophy: that government should help people improve their lives, not try to run their lives. I believe this Nation wants steady, consistent, principled leadership — and that is why, with your help, we will win this election.



The story of America is the story of expanding liberty: an ever-widening circle, constantly growing to reach further and include more. Our Nation's founding commitment is still our deepest commitment: In our world, and here at home, we will extend the frontiers of freedom.



The times in which we live and work are changing dramatically. The workers of our parents' generation typically had one job, one skill, one career — often with one company that provided health care and a pension. And most of those workers were men. Today, workers change jobs, even careers, many times during their lives, and in one of the most dramatic shifts our society has seen, two-thirds of all Moms also work outside the home.



This changed world can be a time of great opportunity for all Americans to earn a better living, support your family, and have a rewarding career. And government must take your side. Many of our most fundamental systems — the tax code, health coverage, pension plans, worker training — were created for the world of yesterday, not tomorrow. We will transform these systems so that all citizens are equipped, prepared — and thus truly free — to make your own choices and pursue your own dreams.



My plan begins with providing the security and opportunity of a growing economy. We now compete in a global market that provides new buyers for our goods, but new competition for our workers. To create more jobs in America, America must be the best place in the world to do business. To create jobs, my plan will encourage investment and expansion by restraining federal spending, reducing regulation, and making tax relief permanent. To create jobs, we will make our country less dependent on foreign sources of energy. To create jobs, we will expand trade and level the playing field to sell American goods and services across the globe. And we must protect small business owners and workers from the explosion of frivolous lawsuits that threaten jobs across America.



Another drag on our economy is the current tax code, which is a complicated mess — filled with special interest loopholes, saddling our people with more than six billion hours of paperwork and headache every year. The American people deserve — and our economic future demands — a simpler, fairer, pro-growth system. In a new term, I will lead a bipartisan effort to reform and simplify the federal tax code.



Another priority in a new term will be to help workers take advantage of the expanding economy to find better, higher-paying jobs. In this time of change, many workers want to go back to school to learn different or higher-level skills. So we will double the number of people served by our principal job training program and increase funding for community colleges. I know that with the right skills, American workers can compete with anyone, anywhere in the world.



In this time of change, opportunity in some communities is more distant than in others. To stand with workers in poor communities — and those that have lost manufacturing, textile, and other jobs — we will create American opportunity zones. In these areas, we'll provide tax relief and other incentives to attract new business, and improve housing and job training to bring hope and work throughout all of America.



As I've traveled the country, I've met many workers and small business owners who have told me they are worried they cannot afford health care. More than half of the uninsured are small business employees and their families. In a new term, we must allow small firms to join together to purchase insurance at the discounts available to big companies. We will offer a tax credit to encourage small businesses and their employees to set up health savings accounts, and provide direct help for low-income Americans to purchase them. These accounts give workers the security of insurance against major illness, the opportunity to save tax-free for routine health expenses, and the freedom of knowing you can take your account with you whenever you change jobs. And we will provide low-income Americans with better access to health care: In a new term, I will ensure every poor county in America has a community or rural health center.



As I have traveled our country, I have met too many good doctors, especially OB-GYNS, who are being forced out of practice because of the high cost of lawsuits. To make health care more affordable and accessible, we must pass medical liability reform now. And in all we do to improve health care in America, we will make sure that health decisions are made by doctors and patients, not by bureaucrats in Washington, D.C.



In this time of change, government must take the side of working families. In a new term, we will change outdated labor laws to offer comp-time and flex-time. Our laws should never stand in the way of a more family-friendly workplace.



Another priority for a new term is to build an ownership society, because ownership brings security, and dignity, and independence.



Thanks to our policies, homeownership in America is at an all-time high. Tonight we set a new goal: seven million more affordable homes in the next 10 years so more American families will be able to open the door and say welcome to my home.



In an ownership society, more people will own their health plans, and have the confidence of owning a piece of their retirement. We will always keep the promise of Social Security for our older workers. With the huge Baby Boom generation approaching retirement, many of our children and grandchildren understandably worry whether Social Security will be there when they need it. We must strengthen Social Security by allowing younger workers to save some of their taxes in a personal account — a nest egg you can call your own, and government can never take away.



In all these proposals, we seek to provide not just a government program, but a path — a path to greater opportunity, more freedom, and more control over your own life.



This path begins with our youngest Americans. To build a more hopeful America, we must help our children reach as far as their vision and character can take them. Tonight, I remind every parent and every teacher, I say to every child: No matter what your circumstance, no matter where you live — your school will be the path to the promise of America.



We are transforming our schools by raising standards and focusing on results. We are insisting on accountability, empowering parents and teachers, and making sure that local people are in charge of their schools. By testing every child, we are identifying those who need help — and we're providing a record level of funding to get them that help. In northeast Georgia, Gainesville Elementary School is mostly Hispanic and 90 percent poor — and this year 90 percent of its students passed state tests in reading and math. The principal expresses the philosophy of his school this way: "We don't focus on what we can't do at this school; we focus on what we can do — We do whatever it takes to get kids across the finish line." This principal is challenging the soft bigotry of low expectations, and that is the spirit of our education reform, and the commitment of our country: No dejaremos a ningún niño atrás. We will leave no child behind.



We are making progress — and there is more to do. In this time of change, most new jobs are filled by people with at least two years of college, yet only about one in four students gets there. In our high schools, we will fund early intervention programs to help students at risk. We will place a new focus on math and science. As we make progress, we will require a rigorous exam before graduation. By raising performance in our high schools, and expanding Pell grants for low and middle income families, we will help more Americans start their career with a college diploma.



America's children must also have a healthy start in life. In a new term, we will lead an aggressive effort to enroll millions of poor children who are eligible but not signed up for the government's health insurance programs. We will not allow a lack of attention, or information, to stand between these children and the health care they need.



Anyone who wants more details on my agenda can find them online. The web address is not very imaginative, but it's easy to remember: GeorgeWBush.com.



These changing times can be exciting times of expanded opportunity. And here, you face a choice. My opponent's policies are dramatically different from ours. Senator Kerry opposed Medicare reform and health savings accounts. After supporting my education reforms, he now wants to dilute them. He opposes legal and medical liability reform. He opposed reducing the marriage penalty, opposed doubling the child credit, and opposed lowering income taxes for all who pay them. To be fair, there are some things my opponent is for — he's proposed more than two trillion dollars in new federal spending so far, and that's a lot, even for a senator from Massachusetts. To pay for that spending, he is running on a platform of increasing taxes — and that's the kind of promise a politician usually keeps.



His policies of tax and spend — of expanding government rather than expanding opportunity — are the policies of the past. We are on the path to the future — and we are not turning back.



In this world of change, some things do not change: the values we try to live by, the institutions that give our lives meaning and purpose. Our society rests on a foundation of responsibility and character and family commitment.



Because family and work are sources of stability and dignity, I support welfare reform that strengthens family and requires work. Because a caring society will value its weakest members, we must make a place for the unborn child. Because religious charities provide a safety net of mercy and compassion, our government must never discriminate against them. Because the union of a man and woman deserves an honored place in our society, I support the protection of marriage against activist judges. And I will continue to appoint federal judges who know the difference between personal opinion and the strict interpretation of the law.



My opponent recently announced that he is the candidate of "conservative values," which must have come as a surprise to a lot of his supporters. Now, there are some problems with this claim. If you say the heart and soul of America is found in Hollywood, I'm afraid you are not the candidate of conservative values. If you voted against the bipartisan Defense of Marriage Act, which President Clinton signed, you are not the candidate of conservative values. If you gave a speech, as my opponent did, calling the Reagan presidency eight years of "moral darkness," then you may be a lot of things, but the candidate of conservative values is not one of them.



This election will also determine how America responds to the continuing danger of terrorism — and you know where I stand. Three days after September 11th, I stood where Americans died, in the ruins of the Twin Towers. Workers in hard hats were shouting to me, "Whatever it takes." A fellow grabbed me by the arm and he said, "Do not let me down." Since that day, I wake up every morning thinking about how to better protect our country. I will never relent in defending America — whatever it takes.



So we have fought the terrorists across the earth — not for pride, not for power, but because the lives of our citizens are at stake. Our strategy is clear. We have tripled funding for homeland security and trained half a million first responders, because we are determined to protect our homeland. We are transforming our military and reforming and strengthening our intelligence services. We are staying on the offensive — striking terrorists abroad — so we do not have to face them here at home. And we are working to advance liberty in the broader Middle East, because freedom will bring a future of hope, and the peace we all want. And we will prevail.



Our strategy is succeeding. Four years ago, Afghanistan was the home base of al-Qaida, Pakistan was a transit point for terrorist groups, Saudi Arabia was fertile ground for terrorist fundraising, Libya was secretly pursuing nuclear weapons, Iraq was a gathering threat, and al-Qaida was largely unchallenged as it planned attacks. Today, the government of a free Afghanistan is fighting terror, Pakistan is capturing terrorist leaders, Saudi Arabia is making raids and arrests, Libya is dismantling its weapons programs, the army of a free Iraq is fighting for freedom, and more than three-quarters of al-Qaida's key members and associates have been detained or killed. We have led, many have joined, and America and the world are safer.



This progress involved careful diplomacy, clear moral purpose, and some tough decisions. And the toughest came on Iraq. We knew Saddam Hussein's record of aggression and support for terror. We knew his long history of pursuing, even using, weapons of mass destruction. And we know that September 11th requires our country to think differently: We must, and we will, confront threats to America before it is too late.



In Saddam Hussein, we saw a threat. Members of both political parties, including my opponent and his running mate, saw the threat, and voted to authorize the use of force. We went to the United Nations Security Council, which passed a unanimous resolution demanding the dictator disarm, or face serious consequences. Leaders in the Middle East urged him to comply. After more than a decade of diplomacy, we gave Saddam Hussein another chance, a final chance, to meet his responsibilities to the civilized world. He again refused, and I faced the kind of decision that comes only to the Oval Office — a decision no president would ask for, but must be prepared to make. Do I forget the lessons of September 11th and take the word of a madman, or do I take action to defend our country? Faced with that choice, I will defend America every time.



Because we acted to defend our country, the murderous regimes of Saddam Hussein and the Taliban are history, more than 50 million people have been liberated, and democracy is coming to the broader Middle East. In Afghanistan, terrorists have done everything they can to intimidate people — yet more than 10 million citizens have registered to vote in the October presidential election — a resounding endorsement of democracy. Despite ongoing acts of violence, Iraq now has a strong Prime Minister, a national council, and national elections are scheduled for January. Our Nation is standing with the people of Afghanistan and Iraq, because when America gives its word, America must keep its word. As importantly, we are serving a vital and historic cause that will make our country safer. Free societies in the Middle East will be hopeful societies, which no longer feed resentments and breed violence for export. Free governments in the Middle East will fight terrorists instead of harboring them, and that helps us keep the peace. So our mission in Afghanistan and Iraq is clear: We will help new leaders to train their armies, and move toward elections, and get on the path of stability and democracy as quickly as possible. And then our troops will return home with the honor they have earned.



Our troops know the historic importance of our work. One Army Specialist wrote home: "We are transforming a once sick society into a hopeful place — the various terrorist enemies we are facing in Iraq," he continued, "are really aiming at you back in the United States. This is a test of will for our country. We soldiers of yours are doing great and scoring victories in confronting the evil terrorists."



That young man is right — our men and women in uniform are doing a superb job for America. Tonight I want to speak to all of them — and to their families: You are involved in a struggle of historic proportion. Because of your service and sacrifice, we are defeating the terrorists where they live and plan, and making America safer. Because of you, women in Afghanistan are no longer shot in a sports stadium. Because of you, the people of Iraq no longer fear being executed and left in mass graves. Because of you, the world is more just and will be more peaceful. We owe you our thanks, and we owe you something more. We will give you all the resources, all the tools, and all the support you need for victory.



Again, my opponent and I have different approaches. I proposed, and the Congress overwhelmingly passed, 87 billion dollars in funding needed by our troops doing battle in Afghanistan and Iraq. My opponent and his running mate voted against this money for bullets, and fuel, and vehicles, and body armor. When asked to explain his vote, the Senator said, "I actually did vote for the 87 billion dollars before I voted against it." Then he said he was "proud" of that vote. Then, when pressed, he said it was a "complicated" matter. There is nothing complicated about supporting our troops in combat.



Our allies also know the historic importance of our work. About 40 nations stand beside us in Afghanistan, and some 30 in Iraq. And I deeply appreciate the courage and wise counsel of leaders like Prime Minister Howard, and President Kwasniewski, and Prime Minister Berlusconi — and, of course, Prime Minister Tony Blair.



Again, my opponent takes a different approach. In the midst of war, he has called America's allies, quote, a "coalition of the coerced and the bribed." That would be nations like Great Britain, Poland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Denmark, El Salvador, Australia, and others — allies that deserve the respect of all Americans, not the scorn of a politician. I respect every soldier, from every country, who serves beside us in the hard work of history. America is grateful, and America will not forget.



The people we have freed won't forget either. Not long ago, seven Iraqi men came to see me in the Oval Office. They had "X"s branded into their foreheads, and their right hands had been cut off, by Saddam Hussein's secret police, the sadistic punishment for imaginary crimes. During our emotional visit one of the Iraqi men used his new prosthetic hand to slowly write out, in Arabic, a prayer for God to bless America. I am proud that our country remains the hope of the oppressed, and the greatest force for good on this earth.



Others understand the historic importance of our work. The terrorists know. They know that a vibrant, successful democracy at the heart of the Middle East will discredit their radical ideology of hate. They know that men and women with hope, and purpose, and dignity do not strap bombs on their bodies and kill the innocent. The terrorists are fighting freedom with all their cunning and cruelty because freedom is their greatest fear — and they should be afraid, because freedom is on the march.



I believe in the transformational power of liberty: The wisest use of American strength is to advance freedom. As the citizens of Afghanistan and Iraq seize the moment, their example will send a message of hope throughout a vital region. Palestinians will hear the message that democracy and reform are within their reach, and so is peace with our good friend Israel. Young women across the Middle East will hear the message that their day of equality and justice is coming. Young men will hear the message that national progress and dignity are found in liberty, not tyranny and terror. Reformers, and political prisoners, and exiles will hear the message that their dream of freedom cannot be denied forever. And as freedom advances — heart by heart, and nation by nation — America will be more secure and the world more peaceful.



America has done this kind of work before — and there have always been doubters. In 1946, 18 months after the fall of Berlin to allied forces, a journalist wrote in the New York Times, "Germany is a land in an acute stage of economic, political and moral crisis. [European] capitals are frightened. In every [military] headquarters, one meets alarmed officials doing their utmost to deal with the consequences of the occupation policy that they admit has failed." End quote. Maybe that same person's still around, writing editorials. Fortunately, we had a resolute president named Truman, who with the American people persevered, knowing that a new democracy at the center of Europe would lead to stability and peace. And because that generation of Americans held firm in the cause of liberty, we live in a better and safer world today.



The progress we and our friends and allies seek in the broader Middle East will not come easily, or all at once. Yet Americans, of all people, should never be surprised by the power of liberty to transform lives and nations. That power brought settlers on perilous journeys, inspired colonies to rebellion, ended the sin of slavery, and set our Nation against the tyrannies of the 20th century. We were honored to aid the rise of democracy in Germany and Japan and Nicaragua and Central Europe and the Baltics — and that noble story goes on. I believe that America is called to lead the cause of freedom in a new century. I believe that millions in the Middle East plead in silence for their liberty. I believe that given the chance, they will embrace the most honorable form of government ever devised by man. I believe all these things because freedom is not America's gift to the world, it is the Almighty God's gift to every man and woman in this world.



This moment in the life of our country will be remembered. Generations will know if we kept our faith and kept our word. Generations will know if we seized this moment, and used it to build a future of safety and peace. The freedom of many, and the future security of our Nation, now depend on us. And tonight, my fellow Americans, I ask you to stand with me.



In the last four years, you and I have come to know each other. Even when we don't agree, at least you know what I believe and where I stand. You may have noticed I have a few flaws, too. People sometimes have to correct my English — I knew I had a problem when Arnold Schwarzenegger started doing it. Some folks look at me and see a certain swagger, which in Texas is called "walking." Now and then I come across as a little too blunt — and for that we can all thank the white-haired lady sitting right up there.



One thing I have learned about the presidency is that whatever shortcomings you have, people are going to notice them — and whatever strengths you have, you're going to need them. These four years have brought moments I could not foresee and will not forget. I have tried to comfort Americans who lost the most on September 11th — people who showed me a picture or told me a story, so I would know how much was taken from them. I have learned first-hand that ordering Americans into battle is the hardest decision, even when it is right. I have returned the salute of wounded soldiers, some with a very tough road ahead, who say they were just doing their job. I've held the children of the fallen, who are told their dad or mom is a hero, but would rather just have their dad or mom.



And I have met with parents and wives and husbands who have received a folded flag, and said a final goodbye to a soldier they loved. I am awed that so many have used those meetings to say that I am in their prayers — to offer encouragement to me. Where does strength like that come from? How can people so burdened with sorrow also feel such pride? It is because they know their loved one was last seen doing good. Because they know that liberty was precious to the one they lost. And in those military families, I have seen the character of a great nation: decent, and idealistic, and strong.



The world saw that spirit three miles from here, when the people of this city faced peril together, and lifted a flag over the ruins, and defied the enemy with their courage. My fellow Americans, for as long as our country stands, people will look to the resurrection of New York City and they will say: Here buildings fell, and here a nation rose.



We see America's character in our military, which finds a way or makes one. We see it in our veterans, who are supporting military families in their days of worry. We see it in our young people, who have found heroes once again. We see that character in workers and entrepreneurs, who are renewing our economy with their effort and optimism. And all of this has confirmed one belief beyond doubt: Having come this far, our tested and confident Nation can achieve anything.



To everything we know there is a season — a time for sadness, a time for struggle, a time for rebuilding. And now we have reached a time for hope. This young century will be liberty's century. By promoting liberty abroad, we will build a safer world. By encouraging liberty at home, we will build a more hopeful America. Like generations before us, we have a calling from beyond the stars to stand for freedom. This is the everlasting dream of America — and tonight, in this place, that dream is renewed. Now we go forward — grateful for our freedom, faithful to our cause, and confident in the future of the greatest nation on earth.



God bless you, and may God continue to bless America.

Thank you, George. I like being introduced by the President of the United States. And Barbara and Jenna, you were great. We are so proud of you both. I want to recognize the best father and Mother-in-law anyone could ever ask for: President Bush and Barbara Bush. And my husbands brothers and sister who have become my brothers and sister too. Watching tonight from her home in Midland, Texas, my mother, Jenna Welch. Thank you for the wonderful privilege you have given my husband and me of serving this great country.



Our lives have been enriched by meeting so many of our fellow Americans. As we've visited your communities, we have witnessed your decency, kindness and character. I am enjoying this campaign. It has reminded me of our very first one, 26 years ago. George and I were newlyweds and he was running for Congress. Our transportation wasn't quite as fancy back then - an Oldsmobile Cutlass, and George was behind the wheel. Even then, he was always on time and he knew exactly where he wanted to go. You learn a lot about your husband when you spend that much time in a car with him. By the end of the campaign, he had even convinced me to vote for him.



This time I don't need any convincing.



I am so proud of the way George has led our country with strength and conviction. Tonight, I want to try to answer the question that I believe many people would ask me if we sat down for a cup of coffee or ran into each other at the store: You know him better than anyone — you've seen things no one else has seen — why do you think we should re-elect your husband as President.



As you might imagine, I have a lot to say about that.



I could talk about my passion, education. At every school we visit, the students are so eager. Last fall the President and I walked into an elementary school in Hawaii, and a little 2nd-grader came out to welcome us and bellowed, "George Washington!" Close, just the wrong George W.



When my husband took office, too many schools were leaving too many children behind, so he worked with Congress to pass sweeping education reform. The No Child Left Behind Act provides historic levels of funding with an unprecedented commitment to higher standards, strong accountability and proven methods of instruction. We are determined to provide a quality education for every child in America.



I could talk about the small business owners and entrepreneurs who are now creating most of the new jobs in our country ... women like Carmella Chaifos — the only woman to own a tow truck company in all of Iowa. The President's tax relief helped Carmella to buy the business, and modernize her fleet, and expand her operations. Carmella is living proof of what she told me. She said: "If you're determined and you want to work hard, you can do anything you want to. That's the beautiful thing about America."



I could talk about health care. For years, leaders in both parties said we should provide prescription drug coverage in Medicare. George was able to bring Republicans and Democrats together to get it done.



I could talk about the fact that my husband is the first President to provide federal funding for stem cell research. - He did so in a principled way, allowing science to explore its potential while respecting the dignity of human life.



I could talk about the record increase in home ownership. Home ownership in America, especially minority home ownership is at an all time high.



All of these issues are important. But we are living in the midst of the most historic struggle my generation has ever known. The stakes are so high. So I want to talk about the issue that I believe is most important for my own daughters, for all our families, and for our future: George's work to protect our country and defeat terror so that all children can grow up in a more peaceful world.



As we gather in this hall and around our television sets tonight, Joshua Crane stands watch aboard the USS John C. Stennis. His brothers Matthew and Nicholas stand watch near Fallujah. At home in Colorado, their mother Cindy stands watch too — with worry, and prayer. She told me all three of her sons enlisted after September 11, because they recognized the threat to our country. Our nation is grateful to all the men and women of our armed forces who are standing guard on the front lines of freedom.



A Dad whose wife is deployed in Iraq recently wrote about what he is learning as he struggles to rear his three children alone. "I have ruined at least three loads of laundry," he said, "Once you turn everything pink, it stays pink." He goes on: "I have learned what our soldiers' wives have known for generations: hope and grief and perseverance."



This time of war has been a time of great hardship for our military families. The President and I want all our men and women in uniform and their wives and husbands, mothers and fathers, sons and daughters to know we appreciate their sacrifice. We know it will mean a more peaceful future for our children and grandchildren.



No American President ever wants to go to war. Abraham Lincoln didn't want to go to war, but he knew saving the union required it. Franklin Roosevelt didn't want to go to war — but he knew defeating tyranny demanded it. And my husband didn't want to go to war, but he knew the safety and security of America and the world depended on it.



I remember some very quiet nights at the dinner table. George was weighing grim scenarios and ominous intelligence about potentially even more devastating attacks. I listened many nights as George talked with foreign leaders on the phone, or in our living room, or at our ranch in Crawford. I remember an intense weekend at Camp David. George and Prime Minister Tony Blair were discussing the threat from Saddam Hussein. And I remember sitting in the window of the White House, watching as my husband walked on the lawn below. I knew he was wrestling with these agonizing decisions that would have such profound consequence for so many lives and for the future of our world.



And I was there when my husband had to decide. Once again, as in our parents' generation, America had to make the tough choices, the hard decisions, and lead the world toward greater security and freedom.



I wasn't born when my father went to World War II. Like so many of our greatest generation he is gone now, lost to Alzheimer's nine years ago. He served in the U.S. Army in Europe for almost three years, and helped liberate Nordhausen, one of the concentration camps. You can imagine his horror at what he found there. The methods of the terrorists we face today are different - but my father would know this struggle.



Our parents' generation confronted tyranny and liberated millions. As we do the hard work of confronting today's threat — we can also be proud that 50 million more men, women and children live in freedom thanks to the United States of America and our allies.



After years of being treated as virtual prisoners in their own homes by the Taliban, the women of Afghanistan are going back to work. After being denied an education, even the chance to learn to read, the little girls in Afghanistan are now in school. Almost every eligible voter — over ten million Afghan citizens — have registered to vote in this fall's presidential election. More than 40 percent of them women. And wasn't it wonderful to watch the Olympics and see that beautiful Afghan sprinter race in long pants and a t-shirt, exercising her new freedom while respecting the traditions of her country.



I recently met a young Iraqi woman. She is one of the new Iraqi Fulbright scholars. She survived horrific ordeals, including the gassing of her village by Saddam Hussein. She told me that when people look at Iraq, what they don't see is that Iraq is a country of 25 million people, each with their own hope.



As we watch the people of Iraq and Afghanistan take the first steps to build free countries, I am reminded of what Vaclav Havel told me. Vaclav Havel — playwright, intellectual, freedom fighter, political prisoner, then President of the Czech Republic — said "Laura, you know, democracy is hard: it requires the participation of everybody." I think of how long it took us in our country, even though we were given such a perfect document by our founders. It took almost 100 years after the founders declared that all men are created equal for America to abolish slavery — and not until 84 years ago this month did American women get the right to vote. Our nation has not always lived up to its ideals — yet those ideals have never ceased to guide us. They expose our flaws, and lead us to mend them. We are the beneficiaries of the work of the generations before us and it is each generation's responsibility to continue that work.



These last three years since September 11, have been difficult years in our country's history, years that have demanded the hope, grief and perseverance that our soldier's husband wrote about. We've learned some lessons we didn't want to know — that our country is more vulnerable than we thought, that some people hate us because we stand for liberty, religious freedom and tolerance. But we have been heartened to discover that we are also braver than we thought, stronger and more generous.



These have been years of change for our family as well. Our girls went off to college and graduated, and now they are back home. We are so happy they are campaigning with us this fall and so proud they will be pursuing their own careers soon. My mother moved out of my childhood home and into a retirement community. We lost our beloved dog Spotty, and had our hearts warmed by the antics of Barney.



People ask me all the time whether George has changed. He's a little grayer — and of course, he has learned and grown as we all have. But he's still the same person I met at a backyard barbecue in Midland, Texas and married three months later. And you've come to know many of the same things that I know about him. He'll always tell you what he really thinks. You can count on him, especially in a crisis. His friends don't change — and neither do his values. He has boundless energy and enthusiasm for his job, and for life itself. He treats every person he meets with dignity and respect; the same dignity and respect he has for the office he holds. And he's a loving man, with a big heart. I've seen tears as he has hugged families who've lost loved ones. I've seen him return the salute of soldiers wounded in battle. And then, being George, he's invites them to come visit us at the White House. And they've come, bringing an infectious spirit of uniquely American confidence that we are doing the right thing and that our future will be better because of our actions today.



Many of my generation remember growing up at the height of the Cold War, hiding under desks during civil defense drills in case the communists attacked us. And now, when parents ask me, what should we tell our children — I think about those desks. We need to reassure our children that our police and firemen, and military and intelligence workers are doing everything possible to keep them safe. We need to remind them that most people in the world are good. And we need to explain that because of strong American leadership in the past we don't hide under our desks anymore. Because of President Bush's leadership and the bravery of our men and women in uniform, I believe our children will grow up in a world where today's terror alerts have also become a thing of the past.



These are also years of hope for our country and our people. We have great confidence in our ability to overcome challenges. We have gained a new appreciation for the many blessings of America, and been reminded of our responsibilities to the country that we love.



George and I grew up in West Texas, where the sky seems endless ... and so do the possibilities. He brings that optimism, that sense of promise, that certainty that a better day is before us to his job every day — and with your help, he'll do so for four more years. These are times that require an especially strong and determined leader. And I'm proud that my husband is that kind of leader.



Thank you, God bless you and God bless America.

In the weeks and months after September 11, I had so many people come up to me and say how glad they were that George Bush and Dick Cheney were in the White House.



I knew exactly what they meant.



These men are strong, they are steadfast, they are exactly the leaders we need at this moment in our history.



And let me say a word, too, about Laura Bush. She not only reassured us in those days after the towers fell, she has been a first lady of enormous grace and dignity, and I am honored to be her friend.



I first met Dick Cheney when he was a teenager, quite a handsome teenager, as a matter of fact. He had a crew cut. He played football. He was the president of our senior class.



But while most of the boys I knew saw the charm of driving back and forth, time and again, between the two A and W root beer stands in our small town, Dick did not.



And when practically everybody in Casper, Wyoming started doing the twist, I can tell you, Dick did not.



He also spent as much time listening as he did talking, which is pretty unusual in a teenager.



Over the years, I figured out that he was someone you could depend on, someone you could trust, someone I wanted to have at my side through all the hard parts of life and all the joyful ones.



He is caring and honest, wise and kind, as our much-loved daughters will testify and our beloved grandchildren, too.



He is also unfailingly modest.



One of our granddaughters asked him a few months ago if he knew anyone famous, and I treasure the fact that she didn't know he was.



Dick first entered public life as "the gentleman from Wyoming," and he loved his ten years as our state's congressman.



It was his privilege to serve as Secretary of Defense during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, and it has been the highest honor for him to serve beside our President for the past four years.



Ladies and gentlemen, my husband, Dick Cheney, the Vice President of the United States.

    Thank you, Lindsey, and, thank you, my fellow Republicans.

    I'm truly grateful for the privilege of addressing you.

    This week, millions of Americans, not all Republicans, weigh our
    claim on their support for the two men who have led our country in
    these challenging times with moral courage and firm resolve.

    So I begin with the words of a great American from the other party,
    given at his party's convention in the year I was born.

    My purpose is not imitation, for I can't match his eloquence, but
    respect for the relevance in our time of his rousing summons to
    greatness of an earlier generation of Americans.

    In a time of deep distress at home, as tyranny strangled the
    aspirations to liberty of millions, and as war clouds gathered in
    the West and East, Franklin Delano Roosevelt accepted his party's
    nomination by observing:

    "There is a mysterious cycle in human events. To some generations
    much is given. Of other generations much is expected. This
    generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny."

    The awful events of September 11, 2001 declared a war we were
    vaguely aware of, but hadn't really comprehended how near the threat
    was, and how terrible were the plans of our enemies.

    It's a big thing, this war.

    It's a fight between a just regard for human dignity and a
    malevolent force that defiles an honorable religion by disputing
    God's love for every soul on earth. It's a fight between right and
    wrong, good and evil.

    And should our enemies acquire for their arsenal the chemical,
    biological and nuclear weapons they seek, this war will become a
    much bigger thing.

    So it is, whether we wished it or not, that we have come to the test
    of our generation, to our rendezvous with destiny.

    And much is expected of us.

    We are engaged in a hard struggle against a cruel and determined
    adversary.

    Our enemies have made clear the danger they pose to our security and
    to the very essence of our culture ...liberty.

    Only the most deluded of us could doubt the necessity of this war.

    Like all wars, this one will have its ups and downs.

    But we must fight. We must.

    The sacrifices borne in our defense are not shared equally by all
    Americans.

    But all Americans must share a resolve to see this war through to a
    just end.

    We must not be complacent at moments of success, and we must not
    despair over setbacks.

    We must learn from our mistakes, improve on our successes, and
    vanquish this unpardonable enemy.

    If we do less, we will fail the one mission no American generation
    has ever failed

    to provide to our children a stronger, better country than the one
    we were blessed to inherit.

    Remember how we felt when the serenity of a bright September morning
    was destroyed by a savage atrocity so hostile to all human virtue we
    could scarcely imagine any human being capable of it.

    We were united. First, in sorrow and anger. Then in recognition we
    were attacked not for a wrong we had done, but for who we are a
    people united in a kinship of ideals, committed to the notion that
    the people are sovereign, not governments, not armies, not a
    pitiless, inhumane theocracy, not kings, mullahs or tyrants, but the
    people.

    In that moment, we were not different races.

    We were not poor or rich. We were not Democrat or Republican,
    liberal or conservative. We were not two countries.

    We were Americans.

    All of us, despite the differences that enliven our politics, are
    united in the one big idea that freedom is our birthright and its
    defense is always our first responsibility. All other
    responsibilities come second.

    We must not lose sight of that as we debate who among us should bear
    the greatest responsibility

    for keeping us safe and free.

    We must, whatever our disagreements, stick together in this great
    challenge of our time.

    My friends in the Democratic Party and I'm fortunate to call many of
    them my friends

    assure us they share the conviction that winning the war against
    terrorism is our government's

    most important obligation.

    I don't doubt their sincerity. They emphasize that military action
    alone won't protect us, that this war has many fronts: in courts,
    financial institutions, in the shadowy world of intelligence, and in
    diplomacy.

    They stress that America needs the help of her friends to combat an
    evil that threatens us all,

    that our alliances are as important to victory as are our armies. We
    agree.

    And, as we've been a good friend to other countries in moments of
    shared perils, so we have good reason to expect their solidarity
    with us in this struggle. That is what the President believes.

    And, thanks to his efforts we have received valuable assistance from
    many good friends around the globe, even if we have, at times, been
    disappointed with the reactions of some. I don't doubt the sincerity
    of my Democratic friends. And they should not doubt ours.

    Our President will work with all nations willing to help us defeat
    this scourge that afflicts us all.

    War is an awful business. The lives of a nation's finest patriots
    are sacrificed. Innocent people suffer. Commerce is disrupted,
    economies are damaged.

    Strategic interests shielded by years of statecraft are endangered
    as the demands of war and

    diplomacy conflict.

    However just the cause, we should shed a tear for all that is lost
    when war claims its wages from us. But there is no avoiding this
    war. We tried that, and our reluctance cost us dearly. And while
    this war has many components, we can't make victory on the
    battlefield harder to achieve so that our diplomacy is easier to
    conduct.

    That is not just an expression of our strength. It's a measure of
    our wisdom.

    That's why I commend to my country the re-election of President
    Bush, and the steady, experienced, public-spirited man who serves as
    our Vice-President, Dick Cheney.

    Four years ago, in Philadelphia, I spoke of my confidence that
    President Bush would accept the responsibilities that come with
    America's distinction as the world's only superpower.

    I promised he would not let America "retreat behind empty threats,
    false promises and uncertain diplomacy;" that he would "confidently
    defend our interests and values wherever they are threatened."

    I knew my confidence was well placed when I watched him stand on the
    rubble of the World Trade Center, with his arm around a hero of
    September 11th, and in our moment of mourning and anger, strengthen
    our unity and summon our resolve by promising to right this terrible
    wrong, and to stand up and fight for the values we hold dear.

    He promised our enemies would soon hear from us. And so they did. So
    they did.

    He ordered American forces to Afghanistan and took the fight to our
    enemies, and away from our shores, seriously injuring al Qaeda and
    destroying the regime that gave them safe haven. He worked
    effectively to secure the cooperation of Pakistan, a relationship
    that's critical to our success against al Qaeda.

    He encouraged other friends to recognize the peril that terrorism
    posed for them, and won their help in apprehending many of those who
    would attack us again, and in helping to freeze the assets they used
    to fund their bloody work.

    After years of failed diplomacy and limited military pressure to
    restrain Saddam Hussein,

    President Bush made the difficult decision to liberate Iraq. Those
    who criticize that decision would have us believe that the choice
    was between a status quo that was well enough left alone and war.
    But there was no status quo to be left alone.

    The years of keeping Saddam in a box were coming to a close. The
    international consensus that he be kept isolated and unarmed had
    eroded to the point that many critics of military action had decided
    the time had come again to do business with Saddam, despite his near
    daily attacks on our pilots, and his refusal, until his last day in
    power, to allow the unrestricted inspection of his arsenal.

    Our choice wasn't between a benign status quo and the bloodshed of
    war. It was between war and a graver threat. Don't let anyone tell
    you otherwise. Not our critics abroad. Not our political opponents.

    And certainly not a disingenuous film maker who would have us
    believe that Saddam's Iraq was an oasis of peace when in fact it was
    a place of indescribable cruelty, torture chambers, mass graves

    and prisons that destroyed the lives of the small children held
    inside their walls.

    Whether or not Saddam possessed the terrible weapons he once had and
    used, freed from international pressure and the threat of military
    action, he would have acquired them again.

    The central security concern of our time is to keep such devastating
    weapons beyond the reach of terrorists who can't be dissuaded from
    using them by the threat of mutual destruction.

    We couldn't afford the risk posed by an unconstrained Saddam in
    these dangerous times.

    By destroying his regime we gave hope to people long oppressed that
    if they have the courage to fight for it, they may live in peace and
    freedom.

    Most importantly, our efforts may encourage the people of a region
    that has never known peace or freedom or lasting stability that they
    may someday possess these rights. I believe as strongly today as
    ever, the mission was necessary, achievable and noble. For his
    determination to undertake it, and for his unflagging resolve to see
    it through to a just end, President Bush deserves not only our
    support, but our admiration.

    As the President rightly reminds us, we are safer than we were on
    September 11th, but we're not yet safe. We are still closer to the
    beginning than the end of this fight.

    We need a leader with the experience to make the tough decisions and
    the resolve to stick with them; a leader who will keep us moving
    forward even if it is easier to rest.

    And this President will not rest until America is stronger and safer
    still, and this hateful iniquity is vanquished. He has been tested
    and has risen to the most important challenge of our time, and I
    salute him.

    I salute his determination to make this world a better, safer, freer
    place. He has not wavered. He has not flinched from the hard
    choices. He will not yield. And neither will we.

    I said earlier that the sacrifices in this war will not be shared
    equally by all Americans. The President is the first to observe,
    most of the sacrifices fall, as they have before, to the brave men
    and women of our Armed Forces. We may be good citizens, but make no
    mistake, they are the very best of us.

    It's an honor to live in a country that is so well and so bravely
    defended by such patriots.

    May God bless them, the living and the fallen, as He has blessed us
    with their service.

    For their families, for their friends, for America, for mankind they
    sacrifice to affirm that right makes might; that good triumphs over
    evil; that freedom is stronger than tyranny; that love is greater
    than hate.

    It is left to us to keep their generous benefaction alive, and our
    blessed, beautiful country worthy of their courage. We should be
    thankful -- for the privilege.

    Our country's security doesn't depend on the heroism of every
    citizen. But we have to be worthy of the sacrifices made on our behalf.

    We have to love our freedom, not just for the material benefits it
    provides, not just for the autonomy it guarantees us, but for the
    goodness it makes possible.

    We have to love it as much, if not as heroically, as the brave
    Americans who defend us at the risk, and often the cost of their lives.

    No American alive today will ever forget what happened on the
    morning of September 11th. That day was the moment when the pendulum
    of history swung toward a new era. The opening chapter was tinged
    with great sadness and uncertainty. It shook us from our complacency
    in the belief that the Cold War's end had ushered in a time of
    global tranquility.

    But an absence of complacency should not provoke an absence of
    confidence. What our enemies have sought to destroy is beyond their
    reach. It cannot be taken from us. It can only be surrendered.

    My friends, we are again met on the field of political competition
    with our fellow countrymen. It is more than appropriate, it is
    necessary that even in times of crisis we have these contests,

    and engage in spirited disagreement over the shape and course of our
    government.

    We have nothing to fear from each other. We are arguing over the
    means to better secure our freedom, and promote the general welfare.
    But it should remain an argument among friends who share an unshaken
    belief in our great cause, and in the goodness of each other.

    We are Americans first, Americans last, Americans always. Let us
    argue our differences.

    But remember we are not enemies, but comrades in a war against a
    real enemy, and take courage from the knowledge that our military
    superiority is matched only by the superiority of our ideals, and
    our unconquerable love for them.

    Our adversaries are weaker than us in arms and men, but weaker still
    in causes. They fight to express a hatred for all that is good in
    humanity.

    We fight for love of freedom and justice, a love that is invincible.
    Keep that faith. Keep your courage. Stick together. Stay strong.

    Do not yield. Do not flinch. Stand up. Stand up with our President
    and fight.

    We're Americans.

    We're Americans, and we'll never surrender.

    They will.



My name is Michael Reagan, and I consider myself the luckiest man in the world.



My mother, father and birth-mother were pro-life, and pro-adoption. Because they were, my father made me a Reagan. I've come to honor my father, not to politicize his name.



I'm here to introduce a video tribute to Ronald Reagan who was not just a great leader, but also a great dad.



On behalf of the Reagan family, let me begin by thanking everyone for all you did during the week we laid my father to rest.



It was your strength and faith, your love and support that sustained us.



So many stood in all-night vigils, stopped their cars and trucks, waved flags or placed their hands on their hearts. One gentleman, Jorge Ponce- Rodriguez, left his passport with a message to our family at the library in Simi Valley.



He said, because of President Reagan, " my family and I were able to achieve US citizenship. Here is my passport as proof. We realized the American Dream! God Bless Mr. Reagan "



Why did Ronald Reagan evoke such incredible gratitude and goodwill?



Was it his personality his sunny optimism, his humor, that twinkle in his eye?



Was it that he was the great communicator? Or, was it all of that and something more?



Ronald Reagan didn't win the Cold War and ignite our economy with funny stories and beautiful words!



He wasn't just a great communicator, he communicated great ideas!



Where did his ideas come from? They came from his beliefs.



My father believed that God had a plan for his life, for every life, and for the life of our nation.



He believed America was placed between the oceans to be a beacon of freedom for the world, a place where man was not beholden to government, government was beholden to man.



Only in America does the Constitution say we the people give government these rights, but no more!



He believed the Founders' limitations on government helped create the freest, most prosperous nation ever known.



Finally, he believed freedom is never more than one generation from extinction. With the blessings of liberty come the responsibilities to defend it.



Throughout his life, his belief in the American people never wavered.



In his farewell letter he wrote, "As I now begin the journey that will lead me into the sunset of my life, I know that for America there will always be a bright dawn ahead."



Ladies and gentlemen, the 40th President of the United States, and my father, Ronald Reagan

Senator Zell Miller speech transcript RNC Convention

 
The following are remarks by Senator Zell Miller as prepared for delivery on September 1 at the 2004 Republican National Convention:

Since I last stood in this spot, a whole new generation of the Miller Family has been born: Four great grandchildren.



Along with all the other members of our close-knit family -- they are my and Shirley's most precious possessions.



And I know that's how you feel about your family also.



Like you, I think of their future, the promises and the perils they will face.



Like you, I believe that the next four years will determine what kind of world they will grow up in.



And like you, I ask which leader is it today that has the vision, the willpower and, yes, the backbone to best protect my family?



The clear answer to that question has placed me in this hall with you tonight. For my family is more important than my party.



There is but one man to whom I am willing to entrust their future and that man's name is



George Bush.



In the summer of 1940, I was an eight-year-old boy living in a remote little Appalachian valley.



Our country was not yet at war but even we children knew that there were some crazy men across the ocean who would kill us if they could.



President Roosevelt, in his speech that summer, told America "all private plans, all private lives, have been in a sense repealed by an overriding public danger."



In 1940 Wendell Wilkie was the Republican nominee.



And there is no better example of someone repealing their "private plans" than this good man.



He gave Roosevelt the critical support he needed for a peacetime draft, an unpopular idea at the time.



And he made it clear that he would rather lose the election than make national security a partisan campaign issue.



Shortly before Wilkie died he told a friend, that if he could write his own epitaph and had to choose between "here lies a president" or "here lies one who contributed to saving freedom", he would prefer the latter.



Where are such statesmen today?



Where is the bi-partisanship in this country when we need it most?



Now, while young Americans are dying in the sands of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan, our nation is being torn apart and made weaker because of the Democrat's manic obsession to bring down our Commander-in-Chief.



What has happened to the party I've spent my life working in?



I can remember when Democrats believed that it was the duty of America to fight for freedom over tyranny.



It was Democratic President Harry Truman who pushed the Red Army out of Iran, who came to the aid of Greece when Communists threatened to overthrow it, who stared down the Soviet blockade of West Berlin by flying in supplies and saving the city.



Time after time in our history, in the face of great danger, Democrats and Republicans worked together to ensure that freedom would not falter. But not today.



Motivated more by partisan politics than by national security, today's Democratic leaders see America as an occupier, not a liberator.



And nothing makes this Marine madder than someone calling American troops occupiers rather than liberators.



Tell that to the one-half of Europe that was freed because Franklin Roosevelt led an army of liberators, not occupiers.



Tell that to the lower half of the Korean Peninsula that is free because Dwight Eisenhower commanded an army of liberators, not occupiers.



Tell that to the half a billion men, women and children who are free today from the Baltics to the Crimea, from Poland to Siberia, because Ronald Reagan rebuilt a military of liberators, not occupiers.



Never in the history of the world has any soldier sacrificed more for the freedom and liberty of total strangers than the American soldier. And, our soldiers don't just give freedom abroad, they preserve it for us here at home.



For it has been said so truthfully that it is the soldier, not the reporter, who has given us the freedom of the press.



It is the soldier, not the poet, who has given us freedom of speech. It is the soldier, not the agitator, who has given us the freedom to protest.



It is the soldier who salutes the flag, serves beneath the flag, whose coffin is draped by the flag who gives that protester the freedom to abuse and burn that flag.



No one should dare to even think about being the Commander in Chief of this country if he doesn't believe with all his heart that our soldiers are liberators abroad and defenders of freedom at home.



But don't waste your breath telling that to the leaders of my party today. In their warped way of thinking America is the problem, not the solution.



They don't believe there is any real danger in the world except that which America brings upon itself through our clumsy and misguided foreign policy.



It is not their patriotism - it is their judgment that has been so sorely lacking. They claimed Carter's pacifism would lead to peace.



They were wrong.



They claimed Reagan's defense buildup would lead to war.



They were wrong.



And, no pair has been more wrong, more loudly, more often than the two Senators from Massachusetts, Ted Kennedy and John Kerry.



Together, Kennedy/Kerry have opposed the very weapons system that won the Cold War and that is now winning the War on Terror.



Listing all the weapon systems that Senator Kerry tried his best to shut down sounds like an auctioneer selling off our national security but Americans need to know the facts.



The B-1 bomber, that Senator Kerry opposed, dropped 40% of the bombs in the first six months of Operation Enduring Freedom.



The B-2 bomber, that Senator Kerry opposed, delivered air strikes against the Taliban in Afghanistan and Hussein's command post in Iraq.



The F-14A Tomcats, that Senator Kerry opposed, shot down Khadifi's Libyan MIGs over the Gulf of Sidra. The modernized F-14D, that Senator Kerry opposed, delivered missile strikes against Tora Bora.



The Apache helicopter, that Senator Kerry opposed, took out those Republican Guard tanks in Kuwait in the Gulf War. The F-15 Eagles, that Senator Kerry opposed, flew cover over our Nation's Capital and this very city after 9/11.



I could go on and on and on: Against the Patriot Missile that shot down Saddam Hussein's scud missiles over Israel, Against the Aegis air-defense cruiser, Against the Strategic Defense Initiative, Against the Trident missile, against, against, against.



This is the man who wants to be the Commander in Chief of our U.S. Armed Forces?



U.S. forces armed with what? Spitballs?



Twenty years of votes can tell you much more about a man than twenty weeks of campaign rhetoric.



Campaign talk tells people who you want them to think you are. How you vote tells people who you really are deep inside.



Senator Kerry has made it clear that he would use military force only if approved by the United Nations.



Kerry would let Paris decide when America needs defending. I want Bush to decide.



John Kerry, who says he doesn't like outsourcing, wants to outsource our national security.



That's the most dangerous outsourcing of all. This politician wants to be leader of the free world.



Free for how long?



For more than twenty years, on every one of the great issues of freedom and security, John Kerry has been more wrong, more weak and more wobbly than any other national figure. As a war protestor, Kerry blamed our military.



As a Senator, he voted to weaken our military. And nothing shows that more sadly and more clearly than his vote this year to deny protective armor for our troops in harms way, far-away.



George Bush understands that we need new strategies to meet new threats.



John Kerry wants to re-fight yesterday's war. George Bush believes we have to fight today's war and be ready for tomorrow's challenges. George Bush is committed to providing the kind of forces it takes to root out terrorists.



No matter what spider hole they may hide in or what rock they crawl under.



George Bush wants to grab terrorists by the throat and not let them go to get a better grip.



From John Kerry, they get a "yes-no-maybe" bowl of mush that can only encourage our enemies and confuse our friends.



I first got to know George Bush when we served as governors together. I admire this man.



I am moved by the respect he shows the First Lady, his unabashed love for his parents and his daughters, and the fact that he is unashamed of his belief that God is not indifferent to America.



I can identify with someone who has lived that line in "Amazing Grace," "Was blind, but now I see," and I like the fact that he's the same man on Saturday night that he is on Sunday morning.



He is not a slick talker but he is a straight shooter and, where I come from, deeds mean a lot more than words.



I have knocked on the door of this man's soul and found someone home, a God-fearing man with a good heart and a spine of tempered steel.



The man I trust to protect my most precious possession: my family.



This election will change forever the course of history, and that's not any history. It's our family's history.



The only question is how. The answer lies with each of us. And, like many generations before us, we've got some hard choosing to do.



Right now the world just cannot afford an indecisive America. Fainthearted, self-indulgence will put at risk all we care about in this world.



In this hour of danger our President has had the courage to stand up. And this Democrat is proud to stand up with him.



Thank you.



God Bless this great country and God Bless George W. Bush. 

Good evening Fellow Americans.



We live in a great country.



A nation of good people in pursuit of great ideals — defined by our Founders, defended by citizensoldiers, and delivered to us.



We inherited a great nation.



So must our children! No nation — whatever the size of its armed forces or economy — can sustain greatness unless it educates all, not just some, of its citizens. No one understands that better than President Bush.



He's always had a compassionate vision for education: Students challenged by high standards; teachers armed with proper resources; parents empowered with information and choices.



Young adults with meaningful diplomas in their hands — not despair in their hearts. He saw that many schools shared his vision. They have dedicated teachers, outstanding administrators, involved parents.



They are in cities, suburbs and rural communities. But there were also schools where young minds were left unengaged; good teachers left unsupported; standards left unused.



Kids who passed through these schools were robbed of their life's potential. And so were we.



Other Presidents tried to fix this problem. But even as education spending skyrocketed, the "achievement gap " persisted.



On a personal note: In my youth I attended segregated schools. I was in college when the Supreme Court announced Brown versus Board of Education. I felt liberated that day. I thought true equality would soon follow. It did not.



While Brown opened the schoolhouse door to all — it did not guarantee quality education for all.



President Bush saw this two-tiered system as unacceptable! He proposed a plan: high standards, measurable goals, real consequences — and resources to get the job done.



He promised results. He delivered results.



The President's first legislative proposal was the No Child Left Behind Act.



This bipartisan law raises the bar for all students — no matter their race or income level.



It challenges what the President calls the "soft bigotry of low expectations." Its goal is simple: all students read and do math at grade level. States, not Washington, set the standards. Schools that need assistance get assistance.



Support for education under President Bush has gone up 36 percent — with more funds requested for disadvantaged students than during the entire Clinton administration.



Casey Stengel would say: "You can look it up!"



Now schools are held accountable for making real progress. If they don't, parents have real choices — such as after-school homework help, or the choice of another school.



No Child Left Behind is working.



All across America — test scores are rising; students are learning; the achievement gap is closing; teachers and principals are beaming with pride! President Bush also increased Pell Grants funding so one million more young adults can afford college.



Although much work remains, our choice is simple: We can either build on these achievements — or return to the days of excuses and indifference.



Our opponents voted for No Child Left Behind. They praised it then. Now they attack it.



They say No Child Left Behind should be watered down, schools can't handle change, some children just can't learn. We say, do not underestimate our public schools — do not underestimate our teachers — and never underestimate our children!



We say high standards, accountability and achievement are on the right track — and we're not going back!



This election may be multiple choices, but there's only one correct choice. To go forward, not back. To choose compassion, not cynicism. To set high standards, not settle for second-best. To elect a true reformer with results — not a "Johnny Come Lately" with mere promises!



Only one candidate has worked to create an education system worthy of a great nation: President George W. Bush.



And now, let's take a look at a school where No Child Left Behind is helping disadvantaged students.


    Thank you.



    What a greeting! This is like winning an Oscar! ... As if I would know!



    Speaking of acting, one of my movies was called "True Lies." It's
    what the Democrats should have called their convention.



    My fellow Americans, this is an amazing moment for me. To think that
    a once-scrawny boy from Austria could grow up to become Governor of
    California and stand in Madison Square Garden to speak on behalf of
    the President of the United States that is an immigrant's dream. It
    is the American dream.



    I was born in Europe ... and I've traveled all over the world. I can
    tell you that there is no place, no country, more compassionate,
    more generous, more accepting, and more welcoming than the United
    States of America.



    As long as I live, I will never forget that day 21 years ago ? when
    I raised my hand and took the oath of citizenship.



    Do you know how proud I was? I was so proud that I walked around
    with an American flag around my shoulders all day long.



    Tonight, I want to talk about why I'm even more proud to be an
    American ? why I'm proud to be a Republican ? and why I believe this
    country is in good hands.



    When I was a boy, the Soviets occupied part of Austria. I saw their
    tanks in the streets. I saw communism with my own eyes. I remember
    the fear we had when we had to cross into the Soviet sector. Growing
    up, we were told, "Don't look the soldiers in the eye. Look straight
    ahead." It was a common belief that Soviet soldiers could take a man
    out of his own car and ship him off to the Soviet Union as slave labor.



    My family didn't have a car ? but one day we were in my uncle's car.
    It was near dark as we came to a Soviet checkpoint. I was a little
    boy, I wasn't an action hero back then, and I remember how scared I
    was that the soldiers would pull my father or my uncle out of the
    car, and I'd never see him again. My family and so many others lived
    in fear of the Soviet boot. Today, the world no longer fears the
    Soviet Union ? and it is because of the United States of America!



    As a kid I saw the socialist country that Austria became after the
    Soviets left. I love Austria and I love the Austrian people ? but I
    always knew America was the place for me. In school, when the
    teacher would talk about America, I would daydream about coming
    here. I would sit for hours watching American movies ? transfixed by
    my heroes like John Wayne. Everything about America seemed so big to
    me ? so open, so possible.



    I finally arrived here in 1968.I had empty pockets, but I was full
    of dreams. The presidential campaign was in full swing. I remember
    watching the Nixon and Humphrey presidential race on TV. A friend
    who spoke German and English, translated for me. I heard Humphrey
    saying things that sounded like socialism ? which is what I had just
    left. But then I heard Nixon speak. He was talking about free
    enterprise, getting government off your back, lowering taxes, and
    strengthening the military. Listening to Nixon speak sounded more
    like a breath of fresh air.



    I said to my friend, "What party is he?" My friend said, "He's a
    Republican." I said, "Then I am a Republican!" And I've been a
    Republican ever since! And trust me, in my wife's family, that's no
    small achievement! I'm proud to belong to the party of Abraham
    Lincoln, the party of Teddy Roosevelt, the party of Ronald Reagan -
    and the party of George W. Bush.



    To my fellow immigrants listening tonight, I want you to know how
    welcome you are in this party. We Republicans admire your ambition.
    We encourage your dreams. We believe in your future. One thing I
    learned about America is that if you work hard and play by the
    rules, this country is truly open to you. You can achieve anything.



    Everything I have ? my career ? my success ? my family ? I owe to
    America. In this country, it doesn't make any difference where you
    were born. It doesn't make any difference who your parents were. It
    doesn't make any difference if, like me, you couldn't even speak
    English until you were in your twenties.



    America gave me opportunities, and my immigrant dreams came true. I
    want other people to get the same chances I did, the same
    opportunities. And I believe they can. That's why I believe in this
    country, that's why I believe in this party ? and that's why I
    believe in this President.



    Now, many of you out there tonight are "Republican" like me in your
    hearts and in your beliefs. Maybe you're from Guatemala. Maybe
    you're from the Philippines. Maybe Europe or the Ivory Coast. Maybe
    you live in Ohio, Pennsylvania or New Mexico. And maybe ? just maybe
    ? you don't agree with this party on every single issue. I say to
    you tonight I believe that's not only okay ? that's what's great
    about this country. Here we can respectfully disagree and still be
    patriotic ? still be American ? and still be good Republicans.



    My fellow immigrants, my fellow Americans how do you know if you are
    a Republican? I'll tell you how.



    If you believe that government should be accountable to the people,
    not the people to the government ... then you are a Republican! If
    you believe a person should be treated as an individual, not as a
    member of an interest group ... then you are a Republican! If you
    believe your family knows how to spend your money better than the
    government does ... then you are a Republican! If you believe our
    educational system should be held accountable for the progress of
    our children ... then you are a Republican! If you believe this
    country, not the United Nations, is the best hope of democracy in
    the world ... then you are a Republican! And, ladies and gentlemen
    ... if you believe we must be fierce and relentless and terminate
    terrorism ... then you are a Republican!



    There is another way you can tell you're a Republican. You have
    faith in free enterprise, faith in the resourcefulness of the
    American people ... and faith in the U.S. economy. To those critics
    who are so pessimistic about our economy, I say: Don't be economic
    girlie men!



    The U.S. economy remains the envy of the world. We have the highest
    economic growth of any of the world's major industrialized nations.
    Don't you remember the pessimism of twenty years ago - when the
    critics said Japan and Germany were overtaking the U.S.? Ridiculous!



    Now they say India and China are overtaking us. Don't you believe
    it! We may hit a few BUMPS ? but America always moves ahead! That's
    what Americans do!



    We move prosperity ahead. We move freedom ahead. We move people
    ahead. Under President Bush, and Vice President Cheney, America's
    economy is moving ahead in spite of a recession they inherited and
    in spite of the attack on our homeland.



    Now, the other party says there are two Americas. Don't believe that
    either. I've visited our troops in Iraq, Kuwait, Bosnia, Germany,
    and all over the world. I've visited our troops in California, where
    they train before they go overseas. And I've visited our military
    hospitals. And I can tell you this: Our young men and women in
    uniform do not believe there are two Americas!



    They believe we are one America ? and they are fighting for it! We
    are one America ? and President Bush is defending it with all his
    heart and soul!



    That's what I admire most about the President. He's a man of
    perseverance. He's a man of inner strength. He is a leader who
    doesn't flinch, doesn't waiver, does not back down. My fellow
    Americans, make no mistake about it - terrorism is more insidious
    than communism, because it yearns to destroy not just the individual
    but the entire international order.



    The President didn't go into Iraq because the polls told him it was
    popular. As a matter of fact, the polls said just the opposite. But
    leadership isn't about polls. It's about making decisions you think
    are right and then standing behind those decisions. That's why
    America is safer with George W. Bush as President.



    He knows you don't reason with terrorists. You defeat them. He knows
    you can't reason with people blinded by hate. They hate the power of
    the individual. They hate the progress of women. They hate the
    religious freedom of others. They hate the liberating breeze of
    democracy. But, ladies and gentlemen, their hate is no match for
    America's decency.



    We're the America that sends out Peace Corps volunteers to teach
    village children.



    We're the America that sends out missionaries and doctors to raise
    up the poor and the sick. We're the America that gives more than any
    other country, to fight aids in Africa and the developing world. And
    we're the America that fights not for imperialism but for human
    rights and democracy.



    You know, When the Germans brought down the Berlin Wall ? America's
    determination helped wield the sledgehammers. When that lone, young
    Chinese man stood in front of those tanks in Tiananmen Square ?
    America's hopes stood with him. And when Nelson Mandela smiled in
    election victory after all those years in prison America celebrated,
    too.



    We are still the lamp lighting the world ? especially for those who
    struggle. No matter in what labor camp they slave ? no matter in
    what injustice they're trapped ? they hear our call ... they see our
    light ... and they feel the pull of our freedom. They come here ? as
    I did ? because they believe. They believe in US.



    They come because their hearts say to them, as mine did, "If only I
    can get to America." Someone once wrote ? "There are those who say
    that freedom is nothing but a dream." They are right. It's the
    American dream.



    No matter the nationality, no matter the religion, no matter the
    ethnic background, America brings out the best in people. And as
    Governor of the great state of California ? I see the best in
    Americans every day ... our police, our firefighters ? our nurses,
    doctors and teachers ? our parents.



    And what about the extraordinary men and women who have volunteered
    to fight ? for the United States of America! I have such great
    respect for them and their heroic families.



    Let me tell you about the sacrifice and commitment I've seen
    firsthand. In one of the military hospitals I visited, I met a young
    guy who was in bad shape. He'd lost a leg ? had a hole in his
    stomach ... his shoulder had been shot through.



    I could tell there was no way he could ever return to combat. But
    when I asked him, "When do you think you'll get out of the
    hospital?" He said, "Sir, in three weeks." And do you know what he
    said to me then? He said he was going to get a new leg ... and get
    some therapy ... and then he was going back to Iraq to serve
    alongside his buddies! He grinned at me and said, "Arnold ... I'll
    be back!"



    Ladies and gentlemen, America is back! ? back from the attack on our
    homeland- back from the attack on our economy ? back from the attack
    on our way of life. We're back because of the perseverance,
    character and leadership of the 43rd President of the United States
    ? George W. Bush.



    My fellow Americans ... I want you to know that I believe with all
    my heart that America remains "the great idea" that inspires the
    world. It's a privilege to be born here. It's an honor to become a
    citizen here. It's a gift to raise your family here ? to vote here ?
    and to live here.



    Our president George W. Bush has worked hard to protect and preserve
    the American dream for all of us. That's why I say ... send - him -
    back to Washington for four more years!



    Thank you, America ? and God bless you all!


