
    Thank you.



    What a greeting! This is like winning an Oscar! ... As if I would know!



    Speaking of acting, one of my movies was called "True Lies." It's
    what the Democrats should have called their convention.



    My fellow Americans, this is an amazing moment for me. To think that
    a once-scrawny boy from Austria could grow up to become Governor of
    California and stand in Madison Square Garden to speak on behalf of
    the President of the United States that is an immigrant's dream. It
    is the American dream.



    I was born in Europe ... and I've traveled all over the world. I can
    tell you that there is no place, no country, more compassionate,
    more generous, more accepting, and more welcoming than the United
    States of America.



    As long as I live, I will never forget that day 21 years ago ? when
    I raised my hand and took the oath of citizenship.



    Do you know how proud I was? I was so proud that I walked around
    with an American flag around my shoulders all day long.



    Tonight, I want to talk about why I'm even more proud to be an
    American ? why I'm proud to be a Republican ? and why I believe this
    country is in good hands.



    When I was a boy, the Soviets occupied part of Austria. I saw their
    tanks in the streets. I saw communism with my own eyes. I remember
    the fear we had when we had to cross into the Soviet sector. Growing
    up, we were told, "Don't look the soldiers in the eye. Look straight
    ahead." It was a common belief that Soviet soldiers could take a man
    out of his own car and ship him off to the Soviet Union as slave labor.



    My family didn't have a car ? but one day we were in my uncle's car.
    It was near dark as we came to a Soviet checkpoint. I was a little
    boy, I wasn't an action hero back then, and I remember how scared I
    was that the soldiers would pull my father or my uncle out of the
    car, and I'd never see him again. My family and so many others lived
    in fear of the Soviet boot. Today, the world no longer fears the
    Soviet Union ? and it is because of the United States of America!



    As a kid I saw the socialist country that Austria became after the
    Soviets left. I love Austria and I love the Austrian people ? but I
    always knew America was the place for me. In school, when the
    teacher would talk about America, I would daydream about coming
    here. I would sit for hours watching American movies ? transfixed by
    my heroes like John Wayne. Everything about America seemed so big to
    me ? so open, so possible.



    I finally arrived here in 1968.I had empty pockets, but I was full
    of dreams. The presidential campaign was in full swing. I remember
    watching the Nixon and Humphrey presidential race on TV. A friend
    who spoke German and English, translated for me. I heard Humphrey
    saying things that sounded like socialism ? which is what I had just
    left. But then I heard Nixon speak. He was talking about free
    enterprise, getting government off your back, lowering taxes, and
    strengthening the military. Listening to Nixon speak sounded more
    like a breath of fresh air.



    I said to my friend, "What party is he?" My friend said, "He's a
    Republican." I said, "Then I am a Republican!" And I've been a
    Republican ever since! And trust me, in my wife's family, that's no
    small achievement! I'm proud to belong to the party of Abraham
    Lincoln, the party of Teddy Roosevelt, the party of Ronald Reagan -
    and the party of George W. Bush.



    To my fellow immigrants listening tonight, I want you to know how
    welcome you are in this party. We Republicans admire your ambition.
    We encourage your dreams. We believe in your future. One thing I
    learned about America is that if you work hard and play by the
    rules, this country is truly open to you. You can achieve anything.



    Everything I have ? my career ? my success ? my family ? I owe to
    America. In this country, it doesn't make any difference where you
    were born. It doesn't make any difference who your parents were. It
    doesn't make any difference if, like me, you couldn't even speak
    English until you were in your twenties.



    America gave me opportunities, and my immigrant dreams came true. I
    want other people to get the same chances I did, the same
    opportunities. And I believe they can. That's why I believe in this
    country, that's why I believe in this party ? and that's why I
    believe in this President.



    Now, many of you out there tonight are "Republican" like me in your
    hearts and in your beliefs. Maybe you're from Guatemala. Maybe
    you're from the Philippines. Maybe Europe or the Ivory Coast. Maybe
    you live in Ohio, Pennsylvania or New Mexico. And maybe ? just maybe
    ? you don't agree with this party on every single issue. I say to
    you tonight I believe that's not only okay ? that's what's great
    about this country. Here we can respectfully disagree and still be
    patriotic ? still be American ? and still be good Republicans.



    My fellow immigrants, my fellow Americans how do you know if you are
    a Republican? I'll tell you how.



    If you believe that government should be accountable to the people,
    not the people to the government ... then you are a Republican! If
    you believe a person should be treated as an individual, not as a
    member of an interest group ... then you are a Republican! If you
    believe your family knows how to spend your money better than the
    government does ... then you are a Republican! If you believe our
    educational system should be held accountable for the progress of
    our children ... then you are a Republican! If you believe this
    country, not the United Nations, is the best hope of democracy in
    the world ... then you are a Republican! And, ladies and gentlemen
    ... if you believe we must be fierce and relentless and terminate
    terrorism ... then you are a Republican!



    There is another way you can tell you're a Republican. You have
    faith in free enterprise, faith in the resourcefulness of the
    American people ... and faith in the U.S. economy. To those critics
    who are so pessimistic about our economy, I say: Don't be economic
    girlie men!



    The U.S. economy remains the envy of the world. We have the highest
    economic growth of any of the world's major industrialized nations.
    Don't you remember the pessimism of twenty years ago - when the
    critics said Japan and Germany were overtaking the U.S.? Ridiculous!



    Now they say India and China are overtaking us. Don't you believe
    it! We may hit a few BUMPS ? but America always moves ahead! That's
    what Americans do!



    We move prosperity ahead. We move freedom ahead. We move people
    ahead. Under President Bush, and Vice President Cheney, America's
    economy is moving ahead in spite of a recession they inherited and
    in spite of the attack on our homeland.



    Now, the other party says there are two Americas. Don't believe that
    either. I've visited our troops in Iraq, Kuwait, Bosnia, Germany,
    and all over the world. I've visited our troops in California, where
    they train before they go overseas. And I've visited our military
    hospitals. And I can tell you this: Our young men and women in
    uniform do not believe there are two Americas!



    They believe we are one America ? and they are fighting for it! We
    are one America ? and President Bush is defending it with all his
    heart and soul!



    That's what I admire most about the President. He's a man of
    perseverance. He's a man of inner strength. He is a leader who
    doesn't flinch, doesn't waiver, does not back down. My fellow
    Americans, make no mistake about it - terrorism is more insidious
    than communism, because it yearns to destroy not just the individual
    but the entire international order.



    The President didn't go into Iraq because the polls told him it was
    popular. As a matter of fact, the polls said just the opposite. But
    leadership isn't about polls. It's about making decisions you think
    are right and then standing behind those decisions. That's why
    America is safer with George W. Bush as President.



    He knows you don't reason with terrorists. You defeat them. He knows
    you can't reason with people blinded by hate. They hate the power of
    the individual. They hate the progress of women. They hate the
    religious freedom of others. They hate the liberating breeze of
    democracy. But, ladies and gentlemen, their hate is no match for
    America's decency.



    We're the America that sends out Peace Corps volunteers to teach
    village children.



    We're the America that sends out missionaries and doctors to raise
    up the poor and the sick. We're the America that gives more than any
    other country, to fight aids in Africa and the developing world. And
    we're the America that fights not for imperialism but for human
    rights and democracy.



    You know, When the Germans brought down the Berlin Wall ? America's
    determination helped wield the sledgehammers. When that lone, young
    Chinese man stood in front of those tanks in Tiananmen Square ?
    America's hopes stood with him. And when Nelson Mandela smiled in
    election victory after all those years in prison America celebrated,
    too.



    We are still the lamp lighting the world ? especially for those who
    struggle. No matter in what labor camp they slave ? no matter in
    what injustice they're trapped ? they hear our call ... they see our
    light ... and they feel the pull of our freedom. They come here ? as
    I did ? because they believe. They believe in US.



    They come because their hearts say to them, as mine did, "If only I
    can get to America." Someone once wrote ? "There are those who say
    that freedom is nothing but a dream." They are right. It's the
    American dream.



    No matter the nationality, no matter the religion, no matter the
    ethnic background, America brings out the best in people. And as
    Governor of the great state of California ? I see the best in
    Americans every day ... our police, our firefighters ? our nurses,
    doctors and teachers ? our parents.



    And what about the extraordinary men and women who have volunteered
    to fight ? for the United States of America! I have such great
    respect for them and their heroic families.



    Let me tell you about the sacrifice and commitment I've seen
    firsthand. In one of the military hospitals I visited, I met a young
    guy who was in bad shape. He'd lost a leg ? had a hole in his
    stomach ... his shoulder had been shot through.



    I could tell there was no way he could ever return to combat. But
    when I asked him, "When do you think you'll get out of the
    hospital?" He said, "Sir, in three weeks." And do you know what he
    said to me then? He said he was going to get a new leg ... and get
    some therapy ... and then he was going back to Iraq to serve
    alongside his buddies! He grinned at me and said, "Arnold ... I'll
    be back!"



    Ladies and gentlemen, America is back! ? back from the attack on our
    homeland- back from the attack on our economy ? back from the attack
    on our way of life. We're back because of the perseverance,
    character and leadership of the 43rd President of the United States
    ? George W. Bush.



    My fellow Americans ... I want you to know that I believe with all
    my heart that America remains "the great idea" that inspires the
    world. It's a privilege to be born here. It's an honor to become a
    citizen here. It's a gift to raise your family here ? to vote here ?
    and to live here.



    Our president George W. Bush has worked hard to protect and preserve
    the American dream for all of us. That's why I say ... send - him -
    back to Washington for four more years!



    Thank you, America ? and God bless you all!


