    Yes, I do.

   But before I answer further, let me thank you for moderating. I want
   to thank the University of Miami for hosting us. And I know the
   president will join me in welcoming all of Florida to this debate.
   You've been through the roughest weeks anybody could imagine. Our
   hearts go out to you. And we admire your pluck and perseverance.

   I can make American safer than President Bush has made us.

   And I believe President Bush and I both love our country equally. But
   we just have a different set of convictions about how you make America
   safe.

   I believe America is safest and strongest when we are leading the
   world and we are leading strong alliances.

   I'll never give a veto to any country over our security. But I also
   know how to lead those alliances.

   This president has left them in shatters across the globe, and we're
   now 90 percent of the casualties in Iraq and 90 percent of the costs.

   I think that's wrong, and I think we can do better.

   I have a better plan for homeland security. I have a better plan to be
   able to fight the war on terror by strengthening our military,
   strengthening our intelligence, by going after the financing more
   authoritatively, by doing what we need to do to rebuild the alliances,
   by reaching out to the Muslim world, which the president has almost
   not done, and beginning to isolate the radical Islamic Muslims, not
   have them isolate the United States of America.

   I know I can do a better job in Iraq. I have a plan to have a summit
   with all of the allies, something this president has not yet achieved,
   not yet been able to do to bring people to the table.

   We can do a better job of training the Iraqi forces to defend
   themselves, and I know that we can do a better job of preparing for
   elections.

   All of these, and especially homeland security, which we'll talk about
   a little bit later.

    I believe in being strong and resolute and determined. And I
   will hunt down and kill the terrorists, wherever they are.

   But we also have to be smart, Jim. And smart means not diverting your
   attention from the real war on terror in Afghanistan against Osama bin
   Laden and taking if off to Iraq where the 9/11 Commission confirms
   there was no connection to 9/11 itself and Saddam Hussein, and where
   the reason for going to war was weapons of mass destruction, not the
   removal of Saddam Hussein.

   This president has made, I regret to say, a colossal error of
   judgment. And judgment is what we look for in the president of the
   United States of America.

   I'm proud that important military figures who are supporting me in
   this race: former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff John
   Shalikashvili; just yesterday, General Eisenhower's son, General John
   Eisenhower, endorsed me; General Admiral William Crown; General Tony
   McBeak, who ran the Air Force war so effectively for his father -- all
   believe I would make a stronger commander in chief. And they believe
   it because they know I would not take my eye off of the goal: Osama
   bin Laden.

   Unfortunately, he escaped in the mountains of Tora Bora. We had him
   surrounded. But we didn't use American forces, the best trained in the
   world, to go kill him. The president relied on Afghan warlords and he
   outsourced that job too. That's wrong.

    Well, where do you want me to begin?

   First of all, he made the misjudgment of saying to America that he was
   going to build a true alliance, that he would exhaust the remedies of
   the United Nations and go through the inspections.

   In fact, he first didn't even want to do that. And it wasn't until
   former Secretary of State Jim Baker and General Scowcroft and others
   pushed publicly and said you've got to go to the U.N., that the
   president finally changed his mind -- his campaign has a word for that
   -- and went to the United Nations.

   Now, once there, we could have continued those inspections.

   We had Saddam Hussein trapped.

   He also promised America that he would go to war as a last resort.

   Those words mean something to me, as somebody who has been in combat.
   "Last resort." You've got to be able to look in the eyes of families
   and say to those parents, "I tried to do everything in my power to
   prevent the loss of your son and daughter."

   I don't believe the United States did that.

   And we pushed our allies aside.

   And so, today, we are 90 percent of the casualties and 90 percent of
   the cost: $200 billion -- $200 billion that could have been used for
   health care, for schools, for construction, for prescription drugs for
   seniors, and it's in Iraq.

   And Iraq is not even the center of the focus of the war on terror. The
   center is Afghanistan, where, incidentally, there were more Americans
   killed last year than the year before; where the opium production is
   75 percent of the world's opium production; where 40 to 60 percent of
   the economy of Afghanistan is based on opium; where the elections have
   been postponed three times.

   The president moved the troops, so he's got 10 times the number of
   troops in Iraq than he has in Afghanistan, where Osama bin Laden is.
   Does that mean that Saddam Hussein was 10 times more important than
   Osama bin Laden -- than, excuse me, Saddam Hussein more important than
   Osama bin Laden? I don't think so.

    The president just talked about Iraq as a center of the war on
   terror. Iraq was not even close to the center of the war on terror
   before the president invaded it.

   The president made the judgment to divert forces from under General
   Tommy Franks from Afghanistan before the Congress even approved it to
   begin to prepare to go to war in Iraq.

   And he rushed the war in Iraq without a plan to win the peace. Now,
   that is not the judgment that a president of the United States ought
   to make. You don't take America to war unless have the plan to win the
   peace. You don't send troops to war without the body armor that they
   need.

   I've met kids in Ohio, parents in Wisconsin places, Iowa, where
   they're going out on the Internet to get the state-of-the-art body
   gear to send to their kids. Some of them got them for a birthday
   present.

   I think that's wrong. Humvees -- 10,000 out of 12,000 Humvees that are
   over there aren't armored. And you go visit some of those kids in the
   hospitals today who were maimed because they don't have the armament.

   This president just -- I don't know if he sees what's really happened
   on there. But it's getting worse by the day. More soldiers killed in
   June than before. More in July than June. More in August than July.
   More in September than in August.

   And now we see beheadings. And we got weapons of mass destruction
   crossing the border every single day, and they're blowing people up.
   And we don't have enough troops there.

    Yes, we have to be steadfast and resolved, and I am. And I will
   succeed for those troops, now that we're there. We have to succeed. We
   can't leave a failed Iraq. But that doesn't mean it wasn't a mistake
   of judgment to go there and take the focus off of Osama bin Laden. It
   was. Now, we can succeed. But I don't believe this president can. I
   think we need a president who has the credibility to bring the allies
   back to the table and to do what's necessary to make it so America
   isn't doing this alone.

    Jim, let me tell you exactly what I'll do. And there are a long
   list of thing. First of all, what kind of mixed message does it send
   when you have $500 million going over to Iraq to put police officers
   in the streets of Iraq, and the president is cutting the COPS program
   in America?

   What kind of message does it send to be sending money to open
   firehouses in Iraq, but we're shutting firehouses who are the first-
   responders here in America.

   The president hasn't put one nickel, not one nickel into the effort to
   fix some of our tunnels and bridges and most exposed subway systems.
   That's why they had to close down the subway in New York when the
   Republican Convention was there. We hadn't done the work that ought to
   be done.

   The president -- 95 percent of the containers that come into the
   ports, right here in Florida, are not inspected. Civilians get onto
   aircraft, and their luggage is X-rayed, but the cargo hold is not X-
   rayed.

   Does that make you feel safer in America?

   This president thought it was more important to give the wealthiest
   people in America a tax cut rather than invest in homeland security.
   Those aren't my values. I believe in protecting America first.

   And long before President Bush and I get a tax cut -- and that's who
   gets it -- long before we do, I'm going to invest in homeland security
   and I'm going to make sure we're not cutting COPS programs in America
   and we're fully staffed in our firehouses and that we protect the
   nuclear and chemical plants.

   The president also unfortunately gave in to the chemical industry,
   which didn't want to do some of the things necessary to strengthen our
   chemical plant exposure.

   And there's an enormous undone job to protect the loose nuclear
   materials in the world that are able to get to terrorists. That's a
   whole other subject, but I see we still have a little bit more time.

   Let me just quickly say, at the current pace, the president will not
   secure the loose material in the Soviet Union -- former Soviet Union
   for 13 years. I'm going to do it in four years. And we're going to
   keep it out of the hands of terrorists.

    The president just said the FBI had changed its culture. We
   just read on the front pages of America's papers that there are over
   100,000 hours of tapes, unlistened to. On one of those tapes may be
   the enemy being right the next time.

   And the test is not whether you're spending more money. The test is,
   are you doing everything possible to make America safe?

   We didn't need that tax cut. America needed to be safe.

    Thank you, Jim.

   My message to the troops is also: Thank you for what they're doing,
   but it's also help is on the way. I believe those troops deserve
   better than what they are getting today.

   You know, it's interesting. When I was in a rope line just the other
   day, coming out here from Wisconsin, a couple of young returnees were
   in the line, one active duty, one from the Guard. And they both looked
   at me and said: We need you. You've got to help us over there.

   Now I believe there's a better way to do this. You know, the
   president's father did not go into Iraq, into Baghdad, beyond Basra.
   And the reason he didn't is, he said -- he wrote in his book --
   because there was no viable exit strategy. And he said our troops
   would be occupiers in a bitterly hostile land.

   That's exactly where we find ourselves today. There's a sense of
   American occupation. The only building that was guarded when the
   troops when into Baghdad was the oil ministry. We didn't guard the
   nuclear facilities.

   We didn't guard the foreign office, where you might have found
   information about weapons of mass destruction. We didn't guard the
   borders.

   Almost every step of the way, our troops have been left on these
   extraordinarily difficult missions. I know what it's like to go out on
   one of those missions when you don't know what's around the corner.

   And I believe our troops need other allies helping. I'm going to hold
   that summit. I will bring fresh credibility, a new start, and we will
   get the job done right.

    Well, you know, when I talked about the $87 billion, I made a
   mistake in how I talk about the war. But the president made a mistake
   in invading Iraq. Which is worse?

   I believe that when you know something's going wrong, you make it
   right. That's what I learned in Vietnam. When I came back from that
   war I saw that it was wrong. Some people don't like the fact that I
   stood up to say no, but I did. And that's what I did with that vote.
   And I'm going to lead those troops to victory.

    No, and they don't have to, providing we have the leadership
   that we put -- that I'm offering.

   I believe that we have to win this. The president and I have always
   agreed on that. And from the beginning, I did vote to give the
   authority, because I thought Saddam Hussein was a threat, and I did
   accept that intelligence.

   But I also laid out a very strict series of things we needed to do in
   order to proceed from a position of strength. Then the president, in
   fact, promised them. He went to Cincinnati and he gave a speech in
   which he said, "We will plan carefully. We will proceed cautiously. We
   will not make war inevitable. We will go with our allies."

   He didn't do any of those things. They didn't do the planning. They
   left the planning of the State Department in the State Department
   desks. They avoided even the advice of their own general. General
   Shinsheki, the Army chief of staff, said you're going to need several
   hundred thousand troops. Instead of listening to him, they retired
   him. The terrorism czar, who has worked for every president since
   Ronald Reagan, said, "Invading Iraq in response to 9/11 would be like
   Franklin Roosevelt invading Mexico in response to Pearl Harbor."
   That's what we have here.

   And what we need now is a president who understands how to bring these
   other countries together to recognize their stakes in this. They do
   have stakes in it. They've always had stakes in it.

   The Arab countries have a stake in not having a civil war. The
   European countries have a stake in not having total disorder on their
   doorstep.

   But this president hasn't even held the kind of statesman-like summits
   that pull people together and get them to invest in those states. In
   fact, he's done the opposite. He pushed them away.

   When the Secretary General Kofi Annan offered the United Nations, he
   said, "No, no, we'll go do this alone."

   To save for Halliburton the spoils of the war, they actually issued a
   memorandum from the Defense Department saying, "If you weren't with us
   in the war, don't bother applying for any construction."

   That's not a way to invite people.

    The United Nations, Kofi Annan offered help after Baghdad fell.
   And we never picked him up on that and did what was necessary to
   transfer authority and to transfer reconstruction. It was always
   American-run.

   Secondly, when we went in, there were three countries: Great Britain,
   Australia and the United States. That's not a grand coalition. We can
   do better.

    What I think troubles a lot of people in our country is that
   the president has just sort of described one kind of mistake. But what
   he has said is that, even knowing there were no weapons of mass
   destruction, even knowing there was no imminent threat, even knowing
   there was no connection with Al Qaida, he would still have done
   everything the same way. Those are his words.

   Now, I would not. So what I'm trying to do is just talk the truth to
   the American people and to the world. The truth is what good policy is
   based on. It's what leadership is based on.

   The president says that I'm denigrating these troops. I have nothing
   but respect for the British, Tony Blair, and for what they've been
   willing to do.

   But you can't tell me that when the most troops any other country has
   on the ground is Great Britain, with 8,300, and below that the four
   others are below 4,000, and below that, there isn't anybody out of the
   hundreds, that we have a genuine coalition to get this job done.

   You can't tell me that on the day that we went into that war and it
   started -- it was principally the United States, the America and Great
   Britain and one or two others. That's it. And today, we are 90 percent
   of the casualties and 90 percent of the costs. And meanwhile, North
   Korea has got nuclear weapons. Talk about mixed messages. The
   president is the one that said, "We can't allow countries to get
   nuclear weapons." They have. I'll change that.

    Well, I've never, ever used the harshest word, as you did just
   then. And I try not to. I've been -- but I'll nevertheless tell you
   that I think he has not been candid with the American people. And I'll
   tell you exactly how.

   First of all, we all know that in his state of the union message, he
   told Congress about nuclear materials that didn't exist.

   We know that he promised America that he was going to build this
   coalition. I just described the coalition. It is not the kind of
   coalition we were described when we were talking about voting for
   this.

   The president said he would exhaust the remedies of the United Nations
   and go through that full process. He didn't. He cut if off, sort of
   arbitrarily.

   And we know that there were further diplomatic efforts under way. They
   just decided the time for diplomacy is over and rushed to war without
   planning for what happens afterwards.

   Now, he misled the American people in his speech when he said we will
   plan carefully. They obviously didn't. He misled the American people
   when he said we'd go to war as a last resort. We did not go as a last
   resort. And most Americans know the difference.

   Now, this has cost us deeply in the world. I believe that it is
   important to tell the truth to the American people. I've worked with
   those leaders the president talks about, I've worked with them for 20
   years, for longer than this president. And I know what many of them
   say today, and I know how to bring them back to the table.

   And I believe that a fresh start, new credibility, a president who can
   understand what we have to do to reach out to the Muslim world to make
   it clear that this is not, you know -- Osama bin Laden uses the
   invasion of Iraq in order to go out to people and say that America has
   declared war on Islam.

   We need to be smarter about now we wage a war on terror. We need to
   deny them the recruits. We need to deny them the safe havens. We need
   to rebuild our alliances.

   I believe that Ronald Reagan, John Kennedy, and the others did that
   more effectively, and I'm going to try to follow in their footsteps.

    I wasn't misleading when I said he was a threat. Nor was I
   misleading on the day that the president decided to go to war when I
   said that he had made a mistake in not building strong alliances and
   that I would have preferred that he did more diplomacy.

   I've had one position, one consistent position, that Saddam Hussein
   was a threat. There was a right way to disarm him and a wrong way. And
   the president chose the wrong way.

    I understand what the president is talking about, because I
   know what it means to lose people in combat. And the question, is it
   worth the cost, reminds me of my own thinking when I came back from
   fighting in that war.

   And it reminds me that it is vital for us not to confuse the war,
   ever, with the warriors. That happened before.

   And that's one of the reasons why I believe I can get this job done,
   because I am determined for those soldiers and for those families, for
   those kids who put their lives on the line.

   That is noble. That's the most noble thing that anybody can do. And I
   want to make sure the outcome honors that nobility.

   Now, we have a choice here. I've laid out a plan by which I think we
   can be successful in Iraq: with a summit, by doing better training,
   faster, by cutting -- by doing what we need to do with respect to the
   U.N. and the elections.

   There's only 25 percent of the people in there. They can't have an
   election right now.

   The president's not getting the job done.

   So the choice for America is, you can have a plan that I've laid out
   in four points, each of which I can tell you more about or you can go
   to johnkerry.com and see more of it; or you have the president's plan,
   which is four words: more of the same.

   I think my plan is better.

   And my plan has a better chance of standing up and fighting for those
   troops.

   I will never let those troops down, and will hunt and kill the
   terrorists wherever they are.

    Secretary of State Colin Powell told this president the Pottery
   Barn rule: If you break it, you fix it.

   Now, if you break it, you made a mistake. It's the wrong thing to do.
   But you own it. And then you've got to fix it and do something with
   it.

   Now that's what we have to do. There's no inconsistency. Soldiers know
   over there that this isn't being done right yet. I'm going to get it
   right for those soldiers, because it's important to Israel, it's
   important to America, it's important to the world, it's important to
   the fight on terror.

   But I have a plan to do it. He doesn't.

    The time line that I've set out -- and again, I want to correct
   the president, because he's misled again this evening on what I've
   said. I didn't say I would bring troops out in six months. I said, if
   we do the things that I've set out and we are successful, we could
   begin to draw the troops down in six months.

   And I think a critical component of success in Iraq is being able to
   convince the Iraqis and the Arab world that the United States doesn't
   have long-term designs on it.

   As I understand it, we're building some 14 military bases there now,
   and some people say they've got a rather permanent concept to them.

   When you guard the oil ministry, but you don't guard the nuclear
   facilities, the message to a lot of people is maybe, "Wow, maybe
   they're interested in our oil."

   Now, the problem is that they didn't think these things through
   properly. And these are the things you have to think through.

   What I want to do is change the dynamics on the ground. And you have
   to do that by beginning to not back off of the Fallujahs and other
   places, and send the wrong message to the terrorists. You have to
   close the borders.

   You've got to show you're serious in that regard. But you've also got
   to show that you are prepared to bring the rest of the world in and
   share the stakes.

   I will make a flat statement: The United States of America has no
   long-term designs on staying in Iraq.

   And our goal in my administration would be to get all of the troops
   out of there with a minimal amount you need for training and logistics
   as we do in some other countries in the world after a war to be able
   to sustain the peace.

   But that's how we're going to win the peace, by rapidly training the
   Iraqis themselves.

   Even the administration has admitted they haven't done the training,
   because they came back to Congress a few weeks ago and asked for a
   complete reprogramming of the money.

   Now what greater admission is there, 16 months afterwards. "Oops, we
   haven't done the job. We have to start to spend the money now. Will
   you guys give us permission to shift it over into training?"

    I couldn't agree more that the Iraqis want to be free and that
   they could be free.

   But I think the president, again, still hasn't shown how he's going to
   go about it the right way. He has more of the same.

   Now, Prime Minister Allawi came here, and he said the terrorists are
   pouring over the border. That's Allawi's assessment.

   The national intelligence assessment that was given to the president
   in July said, best-case scenario, more of the same of what we see
   today; worst-case scenario, civil war.

   I can do better.

    Jim, the president just said something extraordinarily
   revealing and frankly very important in this debate. In answer to your
   question about Iraq and sending people into Iraq, he just said, "The
   enemy attacked us."

   Saddam Hussein didn't attack us. Osama bin Laden attacked us. Al Qaida
   attacked us. And when we had Osama bin Laden cornered in the mountains
   of Tora Bora, 1,000 of his cohorts with him in those mountains. With
   the American military forces nearby and in the field, we didn't use
   the best trained troops in the world to go kill the world's number one
   criminal and terrorist.

   They outsourced the job to Afghan warlords, who only a week earlier
   had been on the other side fighting against us, neither of whom
   trusted each other.

   That's the enemy that attacked us. That's the enemy that was allowed
   to walk out of those mountains. That's the enemy that is now in 60
   countries, with stronger recruits.

   He also said Saddam Hussein would have been stronger. That is just
   factually incorrect. Two-thirds of the country was a no-fly zone when
   we started this war. We would have had sanctions. We would have had
   the U.N. inspectors. Saddam Hussein would have been continually
   weakening.

   If the president had shown the patience to go through another round of
   resolution, to sit down with those leaders, say, "What do you need,
   what do you need now, how much more will it take to get you to join
   us?" we'd be in a stronger place today.

    Thirty-five to forty countries in the world had a greater
   capability of making weapons at the moment the president invaded than
   Saddam Hussein. And while he's been diverted, with 9 out of 10 active
   duty divisions of our Army, either going to Iraq, coming back from
   Iraq, or getting ready to go, North Korea's gotten nuclear weapons and
   the world is more dangerous. Iran is moving toward nuclear weapons and
   the world is more dangerous. Darfur has a genocide.

   The world is more dangerous. I'd have made a better choice.

   What is your position on the whole concept of preemptive war? 
   The president always has the right, and always has had the right, for
   preemptive strike. That was a great doctrine throughout the Cold War.
   And it was always one of the things we argued about with respect to
   arms control.

   No president, through all of American history, has ever ceded, and nor
   would I, the right to preempt in any way necessary to protect the
   United States of America.

   But if and when you do it, Jim, you have to do it in a way that passes
   the test, that passes the global test where your countrymen, your
   people understand fully why you're doing what you're doing and you can
   prove to the world that you did it for legitimate reasons.

   Here we have our own secretary of state who has had to apologize to
   the world for the presentation he made to the United Nations.

   I mean, we can remember when President Kennedy in the Cuban missile
   crisis sent his secretary of state to Paris to meet with DeGaulle. And
   in the middle of the discussion, to tell them about the missiles in
   Cuba, he said, "Here, let me show you the photos." And DeGaulle waved
   them off and said, "No, no, no, no. The word of the president of the
   United States is good enough for me."

   How many leaders in the world today would respond to us, as a result
   of what we've done, in that way? So what is at test here is the
   credibility of the United States of America and how we lead the world.
   And Iran and Iraq are now more dangerous -- Iran and North Korea are
   now more dangerous.

   Now, whether preemption is ultimately what has to happen, I don't know
   yet. But I'll tell you this: As president, I'll never take my eye off
   that ball. I've been fighting for proliferation the entire time --
   anti-proliferation the entire time I've been in the Congress. And
   we've watched this president actually turn away from some of the
   treaties that were on the table.

   You don't help yourself with other nations when you turn away from the
   global warming treaty, for instance, or when you refuse to deal at
   length with the United Nations.

   You have to earn that respect. And I think we have a lot of earning
   back to do.

    With respect to Iran, the British, French, and Germans were the
   ones who initiated an effort without the United States, regrettably,
   to begin to try to move to curb the nuclear possibilities in Iran. I
   believe we could have done better. I think the United States should
   have offered the opportunity to provide the nuclear fuel, test them,
   see whether or not they were actually looking for it for peaceful
   purposes. If they weren't willing to work a deal, then we could have
   put sanctions together. The president did nothing.

   With respect to North Korea, the real story: We had inspectors and
   television cameras in the nuclear reactor in North Korea. Secretary
   Bill Perry negotiated that under President Clinton. And we knew where
   the fuel rods were. And we knew the limits on their nuclear power.

   Colin Powell, our secretary of state, announced one day that we were
   going to continue the dialog of working with the North Koreans. The
   president reversed it publicly while the president of South Korea was
   here.

   And the president of South Korea went back to South Korea bewildered
   and embarrassed because it went against his policy. And for two years,
   this administration didn't talk at all to North Korea.

   While they didn't talk at all, the fuel rods came out, the inspectors
   were kicked out, the television cameras were kicked out. And today,
   there are four to seven nuclear weapons in the hands of North Korea.

   That happened on this president's watch.

   Now, that, I think, is one of the most serious, sort of, reversals or
   mixed messages that you could possibly send.

    Both. I want bilateral talks which put all of the issues, from
   the armistice of 1952, the economic issues, the human rights issues,
   the artillery disposal issues, the DMZ issues and the nuclear issues
   on the table.

    Well, I'll tell you exactly why not, but I first want to say
   something about those sanctions on Iran.

   Only the United States put the sanctions on alone, and that's exactly
   what I'm talking about.

   In order for the sanctions to be effective, we should have been
   working with the British, French and Germans and other countries. And
   that's the difference between the president and me.

   And there, again, he sort of slid by the question.

   Now, with respect to Darfur, yes, it is a genocide. And months ago,
   many of us were pressing for action.

   I think the reason that we're not saying send American troops in at
   this point is severalfold.

   Number one, we can do this through the African Union, providing we
   give them the logistical support. Right now all the president is
   providing is humanitarian support. We need to do more than that.
   They've got to have the logistical capacity to go in and stop the
   killing. And that's going to require more than is on the table today.

   I also believe that it is -- one of the reasons we can't do it is
   we're overextended.

   Ask the people in the armed forces today. We've got Guards and
   Reserves who are doing double duties. We've got a backdoor draft
   taking place in America today: people with stop-loss programs where
   they're told you can't get out of the military; nine out of our 10
   active duty divisions committed to Iraq one way or the other, either
   going, coming or preparing.

   So this is the way the president has overextended the United States.

   That's why, in my plan, I add two active duty divisions to the United
   States Army, not for Iraq, but for our general demands across the
   globe. I also intend to double the number of special forces so that we
   can do the job we need to do with respect fighting the terrorists
   around the world. And if we do that, then we have the ability to be
   able to respond more rapidly.

   But I'll tell you this, as president, if it took American forces to
   some degree to coalesce the African Union, I'd be prepared to do it
   because we could never allow another Rwanda.

   It's the moral responsibility for us and the world.

    Well, first of all, I appreciate enormously the personal
   comments the president just made. And I share them with him. I think
   only if you're doing this -- and he's done it more than I have in
   terms of the presidency -- can you begin to get a sense of what it
   means to your families. And it's tough. And so I acknowledge that his
   daughters -- I've watched them.

   I've chuckled a few times at some of their comments.

   (LAUGHTER)

   And...

    Well, I know. I've learned not to do that.

   (LAUGHTER)

   And I have great respect and admiration for his wife. I think she's a
   terrific person...

    ... and a great first lady.

   But we do have differences. I'm not going to talk about a difference
   of character. I don't think that's my job or my business.

   But let me talk about something that the president just sort of
   finished up with. Maybe someone would call it a character trait, maybe
   somebody wouldn't.

   But this issue of certainty. It's one thing to be certain, but you can
   be certain and be wrong.

   It's another to be certain and be right, or to be certain and be
   moving in the right direction, or be certain about a principle and
   then learn new facts and take those new facts and put them to use in
   order to change and get your policy right.

   What I worry about with the president is that he's not acknowledging
   what's on the ground, he's not acknowledging the realities of North
   Korea, he's not acknowledging the truth of the science of stem-cell
   research or of global warming and other issues.

   And certainty sometimes can get you in trouble.

    I have no intention of wilting. I've never wilted in my life.
   And I've never wavered in my life.

   I know exactly what we need to do in Iraq, and my position has been
   consistent: Saddam Hussein is a threat. He needed to be disarmed. We
   needed to go to the U.N. The president needed the authority to use
   force in order to be able to get him to do something, because he never
   did it without the threat of force.

   But we didn't need to rush to war without a plan to win the peace.

    Nuclear proliferation. Nuclear proliferation. There's some
   600-plus tons of unsecured material still in the former Soviet Union
   and Russia. At the rate that the president is currently securing it,
   it'll take 13 years to get it.

   I did a lot of work on this. I wrote a book about it several years ago
   -- six, seven years ago -- called "The New War," which saw the
   difficulties of this international criminal network. And back then, we
   intercepted a suitcase in a Middle Eastern country with nuclear
   materials in it. And the black market sale price was about $250
   million.

   Now, there are terrorists trying to get their hands on that stuff
   today.

   And this president, I regret to say, has secured less nuclear material
   in the last two years since 9/11 than we did in the two years
   preceding 9/11.

   We have to do this job. And to do the job, you can't cut the money for
   it. The president actually cut the money for it. You have to put the
   money into it and the funding and the leadership.

   And part of that leadership is sending the right message to places
   like North Korea.

   Right now the president is spending hundreds of millions of dollars to
   research bunker-busting nuclear weapons. The United States is pursuing
   a new set of nuclear weapons. It doesn't make sense.

   You talk about mixed messages. We're telling other people, "You can't
   have nuclear weapons," but we're pursuing a new nuclear weapon that we
   might even contemplate using.

   Not this president. I'm going to shut that program down, and we're
   going to make it clear to the world we're serious about containing
   nuclear proliferation.

   And we're going to get the job of containing all of that nuclear
   material in Russia done in four years. And we're going to build the
   strongest international network to prevent nuclear proliferation.

   This is the scale of what President Kennedy set out to do with the
   nuclear test ban treaty. It's our generation's equivalent. And I
   intend to get it done.

    Weapons of mass destruction, nuclear proliferation.

   But again, the test or the difference between us, the president has
   had four years to try to do something about it, and North Korea has
   got more weapons; Iran is moving toward weapons. And at his pace, it
   will take 13 years to secure those weapons in Russia.

   I'm going to do it in four years, and I'm going to immediately set out
   to have bilateral talks with North Korea.

    Well, let me just say quickly that I've had an extraordinary
   experience of watching up close and personal that transition in
   Russia, because I was there right after the transformation. And I was
   probably one of the first senators, along with Senator Bob Smith of
   New Hampshire, a former senator, go down into the KGB underneath
   Treblinka Square and see reams of files with names in them.

   It sort of brought home the transition to democracy that Russia was
   trying to make.

   I regret what's happened in these past months. And I think it goes
   beyond just the response to terror. Mr. Putin now controls all the
   television stations. His political opposition is being put in jail.

   And I think it's very important to the United States, obviously, to
   have a working relationship that is good. This is a very important
   country to us. We want a partnership.

   But we always have to stand up for democracy. As George Will said the
   other day, "Freedom on the march; not in Russia right now."

   Now, I'd like to come back for a quick moment, if I can, to that issue
   about China and the talks. Because that's one of the most critical
   issues here: North Korea.

   Just because the president says it can't be done, that you'd lose
   China, doesn't mean it can't be done. I mean, this is the president
   who said "There were weapons of mass destruction," said "Mission
   accomplished," said we could fight the war on the cheap -- none of
   which were true.

   We could have bilateral talks with Kim Jong Il. And we can get those
   weapons at the same time as we get China. Because China has an
   interest in the outcome, too.

    It was a threat. That's not the issue. The issue is what you do
   about it.

   The president said he was going to build a true coalition, exhaust the
   remedies of the U.N. and go to war as a last resort.

   Those words really have to mean something. And, unfortunately, he
   didn't go to war as a last resort.

   Now we have this incredible mess in Iraq -- $200 billion. It's not
   what the American people thought they were getting when they voted.

    Thank you, Jim, very much.

   Thank you very much to the university, again.

   Thank you, Mr. President.

   My fellow Americans, as I've said at the very beginning of this
   debate, both President Bush and I love this country very much. There's
   no doubt, I think, about that.

   But we have a different set of convictions about how we make our
   country stronger here at home and respected again in the world.

   I know that for many of you sitting at home, parents of kids in Iraq,
   you want to know who's the person who could be a commander in chief
   who could get your kids home and get the job done and win the peace.

   And for all the rest of the parents in America who are wondering about
   their kids going to the school or anywhere else in the world, what
   kind of world they're going to grow up in, let me look you in the eye
   and say to you: I defended this country as a young man at war, and I
   will defend it as president of the United States.

   But I have a difference with this president. I believe when we're
   strongest when we reach out and lead the world and build strong
   alliances.

   I have a plan for Iraq. I believe we can be successful. I'm not
   talking about leaving. I'm talking about winning. And we need a fresh
   start, a new credibility, a president who can bring allies to our
   side.

   I also have a plan to win the war on terror, funding homeland
   security, strengthening our military, cutting our finances, reaching
   out to the world, again building strong alliances.

   I believe America's best days are ahead of us because I believe that
   the future belongs to freedom, not to fear.

   That's the country that I'm going to fight for. And I ask you to give
   me the opportunity to make you proud. I ask you to give me the
   opportunity to lead this great nation, so that we can be stronger here
   at home, respected again in the world, and have responsible leadership
   that we deserve.

   Thank you. And God bless America.

