is this thing on...?
i used to be witty... 	
	
nico




just a girl...with issues...



	


last minute -

finish packing
clean out the car
shower and make the child not smell
finish writing down directions
food and caffiene
oil in car

rock.
1 martini |mix me a drink

	


so of course i can't sleep.
i feel like a kid on xmas eve.

instead i am awake wondering why there is always so much conflict in real life.
contemplating all of the little dramas and bickering that people create for themselves.
thinking of all of the things that people do to make life more complicated and irritating.

it's hard to believe that just months ago i was like that.
maybe i've stopped caring (?) but really i think that now i just don't see the point.
i would rather have each of you over for a cup of coffee or a beer than sit around and argue about things.
really, what's the point?

no two people are ever going to see one thing exactly the same way.
no two people can agree one hundred percent on everything all the time.
it's just not possible.

all day today i have been shoved into misunderstandings and miscommunications and disagreements that just never should have even taken place.
it's just so frustrating to be able to see how easy things would be (from my eyes anyway) and how difficult people make them.
it started with the schedule at work and just went down from there.

maybe in my happiness i have closed my eyes to bullshit.
or maybe it's because i've closed my eyes to bullshit that i am finally able to be happy.

either way... i wish people would just get a grip.
and i wish i could get some sleep...
2 martinis |mix me a drink

	


i have so much shit to do to get ready to leave in the morning!

i'm super excited... and i can't believe i actually get to go see angerasbeauty!

i will have more fun than all of you this weekend.
sorry, but that just rules.
1 martini |mix me a drink

	


this fucking sucks.
i want to break fedex.
if that damn piece of paper is not here by noon i am going to lose it.

overnight early am my ass.

and i just watched a fedex truck drive right past my building.
i'm going to cry.

oh and did i mention that they don't do licensing on thursday so if i can't do it today then i'm fucked?
yeah.

oh and so i called fedex and they show NOTHING is supposed to be sent to me here... so i called ups just in case and they can't do a damn thing without a tracking number and i can't get ahold of my brother to get said tracking number.

*got the tracking number. it's supposed to be delivered today. if i don't get it in time all is not lost... i'll just have to drive an hour or so out of my way to a different dmv on friday morning before i leave for toronto. it's funny... something like this would have ruined my whole month a year ago, now i'm able to deal with things on a rational level. it's rather nice to be fairly sane.*
2 martinis |mix me a drink

	


i am officially out of nicotine and alcohol.

it's really really late and i need to wake up early.

( my plan )
13 martinis |mix me a drink

	


hey guess what...?

i'm sad.

yup. there is really only one person that can do that to me anymore... miles and miles away he goes on with his life... and it's likely that he never even really thinks about me anymore... except that he has this email account that only i know about that he made back when he was lying to me about how perfect life would be since we met and he still emails me from there every once in a while and i'm wondering if it's because they are fighting or if like me he's still just pretending...

( song lyrics and vanity )
6 martinis |mix me a drink

	


work was absolutely crazy tonight.
one girl went home sick and the other was one of the new ones.
one of the not very good at all new ones.
as in that woman should not be a waitress.
so i had half of the diner to myself plus two of her tables and was running around like crazy. both of the owners were working tonight and i don't think she will be there much longer. i got many thanks and compliments from them though, which is always nice. after working for "L"-dog for so long, it's really nice to actually feel appreciated at work.

this rain is rocking my world... i LOVE IT! it's no wonder i was so miserable for so long... i wasn't getting enough rain...

must wake up early tomorrow and see if the dmv is as much of a nightmare here as it is in cali... i'm thinking it won't even be nearly as bad. and i'm hoping that they work with me and don't piss me off. i just want the license and i'll be a happy happy girl.

i want mango salsa and i have none.
2 martinis |mix me a drink

	


oh yeah baby.
i am holding in my hand my fucking birth certificate.
after lord knows how long i finally have the damn thing!

so i'm trekking out to the dvm tomorrow morning and if all goes well i will walk out of there with a new hampshire license. yay! then i will get the oil changed in my car and stop by dasan's school on the way home. rock.

i can't believe how difficult it has been to get that damn piece of paper.

i have over an hour to kill before i have to leave for work. which is not enough time to do anything out here. boring boring.
10 martinis |mix me a drink

	


i don't have to wake up in the morning so i am staying up late drinking beer and listening to good music all by myself.


of course that means putting on make-up, doing my hair, and ( taking pictures )

sometimes i just get so damn bored out here in the middle of nothing.
sometimes i would love just more than anything to be able to hop in my car and drive to a coffee shop where i know that i will run into a friend or two and be able to have some good conversation.
sometimes it's just so lonely...
17 martinis |mix me a drink

	


( words )
4 martinis |mix me a drink

	


dasan is sleeping.
it's not even 9:30 & the kid has been asleep for almost an hour.
something strange is in the air...

so to celebrate this rare event... i'm going to see if his sleep is contagious and i'm going to bed too.

this is what happens on a saturday night when you are old and boring.

*edit - sleep is not contagious.*
mix me a drink

	


i think that i absolutely have to get
i just purchased these shoes for dasan. too damn cute!
1 martini |mix me a drink

	


mmmm... tropical storminess.
and it's not dangerous here, just hot and wet.
i like it when things are hot and wet.
it's good for the soul.

the wind has pushed all the lily pads to the side of the pond and it looks all swamp like and strange.

today i am going to buy socks.

i got some great news in the mail. i am going to try and get my NH license before i go to canada to avoid any possible nastiness on the part of border control, and the mail i got from my mother today confirmed that i am in fact able to get said lisence without any hassles. rock.

some days it amazes me how fucking badass my life is becoming... it's about damn time :)
4 martinis |mix me a drink

	


new girl isn't so bad... she even offered to babysit dasan on monday since the boy who was going to take him fishing got his schedule changed. why don't they check these things with me first? the boy should be fishing monday, not cooking.

anyway so yeah... new girl will be just fine. if she can stop dropping things.

i have to work three morning shifts in a row. i will be a zombie by sunday evening.
which is actually okay by me, since it means i don't have to work sunday evening for the lame cook out car cruise thing which will likely be total chaos. sorry girls.

my life is incredibly boring. i can't wait for toronto! i have money enough for my rent so anything i make between now and a week from today is all for spending while i'm gone.
and that rocks.

also... holy crap is the cary brothers cd good. buy it, for real. not very many songs, but well worth it to support a budding little musician.

also... i have a myspace.com account now. um... add me or whatever.
1 martini |mix me a drink

	
the school was closed (even though the lady told me to come by anytime during the week. um, grrrr) so i'll have to go back tuesday.

i have one hour before i have to go to work.
that's a thirty minute nap and thirty minutes to get ready.
i really don't like waking up in the morning. it's no fun at all.
mix me a drink

	


i woke up before noon.
so we're going to the school and the grocery store.
it's amazing how much one can get accomplished when one does not sleep all day like a lazy ass.

and you think it's hard to get me out of bed before noon...? just try getting dasan out of bed before 11am. that kid is less of a morning person than i am...
8 martinis |mix me a drink

	


okay so i take it back... i don't really want my mommy. she emailed me and man, i love her but all she does is whine, complain, gossip and complain more.

she's going to portland in september i guess... say hi for me.
i guess my distant relatives that live up there are more important than me.

also i am super bummed. this dude that comes into the diner asked me tonight if i was still looking for an apartment. i told him that i was all moved in and had been for awhile and he said that was too bad.

then he told me about the perfect apartment.
right in town (the one i work in, not this one) same as what i'm paying now only for two bedrooms instead of one!
i wonder what i have to do to break my lease...?
which i don't want to do, but to be that close to work and not have to deal with driving in snow in the winter would be nice... especially that cheap.

oh well... i'm going to go ahead and tell myself that i must be here for a reason.
such is life. the perfect apartment will come along when it's timed better i'm sure, and i like this place anyway.

i haven't had a cigarette all day.
every time i say that to myself i think, man... a cigarette would be really good right now...
new girl at work did everything i said. she's a little slow, but it's only her second day. she was nice enough to me, but if i ever see her giving anyone else shit i'll stomp her.

okay. try to sleep now.
gonna try to wake up before noon.
3 martinis |mix me a drink

	


i just found this dude in my kitchen.

needless to say... i've lost my appetite... UNTIL MY LEASE RUNS OUT.

with the help of tupperware i have put the creature outside.
however... my deck and all things near it are off limits for the rest of my natural born life.

(that picture is in fact actual size. the motherfucker was huge! he talked to me and stuff. i like spiders for the most part, but fuck that.)
18 martinis |mix me a drink

	
so everyone should see the experiment.
seriously... it's so fucked up.

okay... everyone except mysterywhteboy.
he should wait until he's out of where he is right now... then see it, but not ever go back to one of those ghastly things.

great fucking film.
mix me a drink

	
today was driving down twisty country roads with girlwithacurl looking for the cemetary in the middle of nowhere surrounded by a swamp.

( we found it )

now it's blueberry beer and watching the fog of war & worrying that i am getting old because my baby is going to the doctor tomorrow for his physical so that he can start school. tonight will be my wondering if i will always be alone while i watch my friends marry and remarry and i just sigh and watch my roots turn grey...

tomorrow it's laundry and softball games and manly men and more of the same. just like every other day.
and that's fine with me... i just want a little lovin sometimes... just like everyone else...
6 martinis |mix me a drink








